
AHS seniors caught partying won't be banned from grad ceremony
 
Date Published to Web: 5/14/2002
Nine Alderwood High School seniors have been disciplined following an incident involving alcohol that occurred on the high school football field a week ago. According to the Alderwood Police Department, officers responded to a suspicious person call at 1:50 a.m. on May 7. A statement from the Alderwood School District notes that the officers witnessed the students drinking on school property.   According to the Alderwood School District, the students involved in the incident have been disciplined, but at this point will be allowed to walk with their classmates during the June 4 graduation ceremony.   According to Alderwood High School policy, since the students' actions involved alcohol the students were facing either immediate emergency expulsion or, if it's a first offense, the expulsion can be changed to a short-term suspension with a parent, student and administrator conference.   The school district notes that Alderwood High School Principal Dennis Birr and his administrative staff have met with the parents of each of the students, and the students have been disciplined and are performing community service on school property. According to the school district, each of the students have been banned from all activities on school grounds throughout their suspension, including senior follies, athletic events or any other extra-curricular activities. The only exception was that the seniors were allowed to make their senior project presentations. Under the Alderwood High School athletic code, any of the nine seniors who were involved in athletics have been suspended for the remainder of the season.   The students were also required to sign a behavior contract for the remainder of the school year. According to the Alderwood School District, if any of the students violate school policy in the coming weeks, they will not be allowed to walk at graduation.   


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


