


Alderwood City Council Briefs


 


Date Published to Web: 2/3/2002




1-Column


 


Graffiti crackdown on Feb. 9 agenda


An interlocal jail agreement with the City of Yakima is expected to be approved by the Alderwood City Council at its Feb. 9 meeting.


The jail agreement is just one of the items on the Feb. 9 agenda.


Other items include a public hearing to accept input on rate increases in water and sewer services. Council will also consider the extension of a housing rehabilitation contract with the Alderwood Valley Conference of Governments. Also, Council is expected to formally grant Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz emergency power to deal with eradicating crows in the community.


One of the more impactful items to come before Council Feb. 9 will be a proposal for a graffiti ordinance. The ordinance is expected to include a requirement that all city businesses not sell spray paint to minors, implementing some strict standards for purchase. Councilman Tom Seeger is also supposed to discuss the city implementing a program where graffiti offenders would have to appear in civil court so victims could reclaim damages.


 


Pavers program honoring long-term councilmen to be on hold


Alderwood City Councilwoman Jennie Angel opted to delay her request for funding a pavers program at Centennial Square honoring Council members who have served approximately 20 years or more.
  


At this past Monday night's meeting, Angel explained the city is in a financial bind right now, so she opted to delay the program. She said each paver will cost $300 to install. Angel did read the names of the five councilmen who would be honored under the program, the first of whom is Margaret Bond. Bond served 19 years and six months on the Alderwood City Council. Jerry Taylor represented Council for 21 years. Don Hughes has the longest term of any council member, having served 31 years. Errol Brown and Roy Anciso would be the last two councilmen honored through the program, having served 23 and 20 years, respectively.


 


Council agrees to meet with
school board


The Alderwood City Council this past Monday night collectively agreed to a joint meeting with the Alderwood School Board. Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz said he would get in contact with Alderwood School District Superintendent Dr. Aaron Bones to discuss a possible date, further suggesting Council come up with agenda ideas for the gathering.


 


Council takes no action following executive session


The Alderwood City Council took no action this past Monday night following a 15-minute executive session concerning legal issues.


 


Mayor to miss next two meetings


The Alderwood City Council granted Mayor Rex Luthor an excused absence for this past Monday night's meeting. Council excused the mayor from the following week's meeting, as well. Councilman John Torch also received an excused absence for the Feb. 9 meeting.


 


Martin Luther King Jr. holiday discussion to wait


Alderwood City Councilwoman Jennie Angel told the Council this past Monday night she wanted to wait until Mayor Rex Luthor returned in two weeks to discuss making Martin Luther King Jr. Day a recognized holiday by the City of Alderwood.






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





