


Candidate for Patty Murray's seat addresses Alderwood GOP club


Story by: Ellie Olmsen


Date Published to Web: 3/26/2003


There are several issues that Dr. Reed Davis, a candidate running for the U.S. Senate seat currently filled by Democrat Patty Murray, feels very strongly about. This morning (Friday), during a quick stop over in Alderwood, Davis was given a chance to talk about the different issues that make up his campaign.
   The guest speaker at the Alderwood Republican Club meeting, Davis said he feels spending is the key issue during this election season.
   "This Congress is the most expense Congress next to LBJ's," Davis said, noting that in the past three years discretionary spending has increased 25 to 30 percent.
   "I'm a deficit hawk," he said. Davis said he believes all of the spending Congress is doing will ultimately mean passing a huge debt on to the nation's children and grandchildren.
   Davis said he also feels that the spending that has been going on is affecting the Social Security system.
   "Social Security is going broke," he said. "We need to fix Social Security, but we can't until Congress quits spending."
   According to Davis, one way to curb the spending he feels is happening is for voters to elect "...congressmen and senators who are committed to fiscal responsibility."
   When it comes to Social Security reform, Davis said he supports a plan being proposed that would allow younger workers to put their Social Security taxes in a personal investment account.
   Davis said another important issue is the marriage amendment recently proposed by President George Bush.
   "I support the marriage amendment," Davis said. "I think most Americans believe a strong family is the foundation of everything in American society."
   Davis added that one of the problems with civil unions of any kind is that they tend to end in separation at two to three times the rate of marriages. He said these separations can have a devastating effect on children.
   Davis is running against Rep. George Nethercutt for the Republican nomination to run for the U.S. Senate currently held by Murray.
   Davis, who lives in Maple Valley, is an associate professor at Seattle Pacific University, where he teaches classes on political science.
   Davis said he decided to run for the senate seat because he is alarmed by the spending that is going on in Congress today. He said having taught classes on federal budgeting and publishing both a book and different articles on public policy, as well as having served as the chair of the King County Republican Party for eight years, he feels he is ready to take on a race for the senate.
   "I think Republicans will be grateful to have a choice in this primary," Davis said. "I think it's time to get someone in there with credibility when it comes to fiscal responsibility."






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





