
Obtiuaries
 
Date Published to Web: 11/3/2004

GAYLORD MANNING FREEPONS
GAYLORD MANNING FREEPONS
 Gaylord Manning Freepons, 80, of Alderwood died Monday, Nov. 1, 2004, at Hillcrest Manor in Alderwood.
He was born July 15, 1924 in Walla Walla to Ernest T. Freepons and Phyllis (Johnson) Freepons. He attended Valley Chapel Elementary School. After completing the eight grade he attended Walla Walla High School. After graduating he worked on the family farm and briefly attended Washington State University. On Dec. 4, 1949 he married Loretta Murchland at the Prosser Baptist Church. Together they raised seven children, and developed many acres of productive farmland.
He is survived by his wife of 55 years, Loretta Freepons; two daughters, Connie (Steve) Coombs of Fielding, Utah and Alys (Mike) Means of Prosser; five sons, Mike (Teresa), Jeff (Jody), Marc (Sandy), Tom (Linda) and Phil (Brenda) Freepons, all of Prosser; 15 grandchildren; two great-grandchildren; one sister, Doris Freepons Norman of Pasco; one sister-in-law, Bette Freepons Fread of Walla Walla; numerous nieces and nephews.
He was preceded in death by his parents; an infant sister, Virginia; one sister, Marion; and three brothers, Richard, Edward and Donald.
An open house will be held for family and friends Saturday, Nov. 13, 2004, from 1 to 4 p.m. at 1114 Colena St., Prosser. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions can be made to the Muscular Dystrophy Association, 101 W. Indiana Ave., Spokane, WA 99205 or Prosser High School Future Farmers of America (FFA), 1203 Prosser Ave., Prosser, WA 99350.
 
ESTHER  LOIS SHOCKLEY
Esther Lois Shockley, 91, of Alderwood died Tuesday, Nov. 2, 2004, at Hillcrest Manor in Alderwood.
She was born in Alderwood in 1913 to Thomas and Elta (Sparks) Muir. She attended grade school at Maple Grove School and completed her education in the Alderwood schools. On Feb. 1, 1931 she married Clifford I. Shockley in Alderwood. They farmed in the Outlook area. In 1956 they moved to the Tri-Cities, where they continued farming. She worked in retail at Haskins, J.C. Penney and Sears.
She is survived by two daughters, Beverly Newhouse (John) of Alderwood and Carole Plunkitt (Jim) of Richland; one sister, Ruth Warmenhoven (Cornie) of Kennewick; one brother-in-law, Cecil Shockley (Pauline) of Outlook; seven grandchildren; 12 great-grandchildren.
She was preceded in death by her husband, Clifford Shockley; her parents; two sisters, Leta Travaille and Verna Belcher; and two brothers, Buster and Donald Muir.
Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, Nov. 5, 2004, from 1 to 8 p.m. and Saturday, Nov. 6, 2004, from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Saturday, Nov. 6, 2004, at 1:30 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home. Burial will be at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood. Memorials may be made to Grace Brethren Church Missions Program. Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements.
 
STEVE J. EVANS
Steve J. Evans, 50, of Alderwood was called home to his Savior Friday, Oct. 30, 2004, due to an apparent heart attack while enjoying his favorite pastime, hunting.
Steve was born July 11, 1954 in St. Paul, Minn., the son of Jayne LaClaire (Skold) and Merlyn Wayne Evans. He received his high school diploma from Colville High School. Steve served in the U.S. Army from 1973 to 1976 with the 101 Airborne Divisions at Fort Campbell, Ky. In 1977 Steve started his employment with the Alderwood Police Department. He graduated from the Seattle Police Academy returning to the Alderwood Police Department., where he served as a patrolman, a detective and was active on the H.E.A.T Team. Steve was very instrumental in getting the Alderwood Police Department. accredited. He was a DARE/GREAT teacher and one of his favorite projects was obtaining and restoring a car for the DARE program. He was the Explorer post advisor and advanced hunter educator instructor. Steve was also active in the Alderwood Fire Department as a volunteer and EMT. On Sept. 8, 2001 he married Dawna Page in Alderwood, where they made their home.
Steve enjoyed camping, the outdoors, hunting, fishing, fly tying, reloading shells, working in his yard, designing and building projects, and restoring old cars. He was a Civil War buff.
Steve was a member of the Alderwood Grace Brethren Church.
He is survived by his wife, Dawna; daughter, MacKenzie Lynn (Tinky Butt) of Alderwood; daughter, Amanda Evans of Federal Way, and daughter, Dana Evans of James Town, N.D.; one grandson, Coven Mikel Evans. He is also survived by his mother and stepfather, Jim and Jayne Northrup of Colville;  his mother-in-law, Sharon Page; one brother, Dennis Evans (Vicki) of Montana; three sisters, Linda Bylsma (Pete) of Olympia, Lisa Austin (Tim) of Monroe, and Diane Clark (James) of Canada; one stepbrother, Randy Northrup of Seattle; two stepsisters, Pam Evans of Spokane and Candy Acevedo (Gil), of Spokane; his brother-in-law, Joshua Page of Alderwood; and numerous nieces and nephews.
He was preceded in death by his father, Merlyn Wayne Evans.
Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, Nov. 5, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Saturday, Nov. 6, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Grace Brethren Church in Alderwood. Military graveside services will be held at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood.  In lieu of flowers, those wishing to honor Steve’s memory may contribute to the MacKenzie Evans College Scholarship Fund at Yakima Federal Savings and Loan in Alderwood.
“Daddy, even though I’m too little to express myself with words and my thoughts remain unspoken, I want you to know that I love when you look at me, talk to me, and most of all when you play with me. When I look back at you and smile, that’s my way of letting you know that you make me happy and I love you very much. Being your daughter is the best thing that ever happened to me! I love You Paw Paw, MacKenzie.”


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


