
Grandview City Council Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 4/21/2002

1-Column
Grandview moves ahead withnew signals
GRANDVIEW - Grandview Public Works Director Cus Arteaga reported to city council Monday night, that work is currently being done on the design phase of the signalization projects at both the intersection of Wine Country Road and Elm Street and Wine Country and Grandridge roads.
The project will include some changes to the intersection of Grandridge and Wine Country roads. The corner of the intersection where Lucky Seven is located will be widened to create a larger turning radius.
According to the report given to council, the signals at both intersections will likely be installed later this fall.
 
Daycare makes donation to playground project
GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Grandview city council chambers were filled with children waiting their turn to give something back to the community. The children all attend Teddy Bear Corner daycare center and were at the meeting to donate $3,600 to Grandview's Dykstra Park playground project.
Liz Charvet with Teddy Bear Corner said the children and their families sold 712 pizza kits to raise funds for the project. She said this is the most money the children have ever helped raise for a cause.
"There was not a person who thought it was a bad idea," Charvet said of the idea to raise funds for the playground project.
 
Cavazos recognized for 25 years of service
GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Tony Cavazos was recognized by Grandview City Council for 25 years of service to the community.
Cavazos has worked with the Grandview Parks Department since 1979.
"I think really highly of this fellow," said Grandview Parks and Recreation Director Mike Carpenter. "He always comes to work with a positive attitude."
 
April Homesof the Month recognized
GRANDVIEW - Five homes and one business were recognized by Grandview City Council Monday night as the recipients of the April Homes of the Month award, as well as the Beautification Award.
April Homes of the Month include the homes of Mike and Myrleen Storms at 1808 Beacon St., Issac and Irma Perez at 1202 1/2 Rainier Dr., Manuel and Estela Ledesma at 622 E. Second St., Vernon and Delores Telander at 306 Avenue G, and Jesus and Ofelia Roman at 503 Armas Crt. The Beautification Award was presented to Westside Family Dental at 210 Euclid St.
 
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


