


It's official!


Story by: John Panni


Date Published to Web: 4/13/2003


After months and months of looking, the Alderwood City Council finally found its man to take the reigns as new city manager.
   City Council members unanimously approved the contract of Robert Rockford to serve as the new city manager of Alderwood at Monday night's meeting.
   Rockford, who currently lives in Provo, Utah, was hired from a pool of 17 applicants. Rockford replaces former City Manager Dave Fonfara, who now holds a similar position in Chelan. Assistant City Manager/City Attorney Bruce Rinz has been serving as interim city manager since Fonfara's resignation in January.
   Rockford will officially begin his duties as city manager of Alderwood starting Monday, May 3.
   At the April 5 meeting, Council announced its intentions to offer Rockford a contract for the position of city manager. Rockford and Scott McClure of Brush, Col. were the two finalists in the running for the city manager position. Council selected Rockford following a trip by Councilmen Tom Seeger, George Greenway and John Torch to conduct background research in the hometowns of both finalists.
   Mayor Rex Luthor and Rockford spent all of last week hashing out contract details. Luthor said at this past Monday night's Council meeting both sides had reached an agreement to formalize a contract last Friday.
   Rockford was officially hired Monday night and will begin work as city manager on May 3. Rockford will be paid $87,500 annually for his job as city manager. Per an agreement by both sides, said Luthor, Rockford will not receive regular step pay increases. Rather, said Luthor, any increases or salary adjustments will be done during the city manager's annual review. Rockford is the lone employee of the City Council.
   Rockford is not entitled to overtime pay, but rather will receive compensation for any hours worked in excess of 40 hours per week, said Luthor.
   If Rockford is terminated by Council, he will receive a severance package, including six month's worth of pay. The Council also agreed to pay for vacation, holidays, health and life insurance and executive leave in the compensation package. However, if Rockford is terminated as the result of violating any laws, he will not be eligible for the severance package.
   The city also agrees to pay 100 percent of the premium for health, vision, dental, short and long-term disability and life insurance coverage for Rockford and his wife, Sue.
   Rockford will receive a monthly reimbursement of $50 as a phone allowance for use of his private telephone.
   The contract also calls for the allocation of $20,000 to assist Rockford in moving from Utah to Alderwood. The city will pay the moving expenses as long as they are billed to the city by Nov. 1.
   Rockford will also receive a monthly car allowance in the amount of $325. Rockford will receive 160 hours, or one month, of vacation annually beginning with the first year of his employment.
   Following approval of the city manager contract, Rockford said he learned a lot about what kind of Council the city has through the mayor's negotiations. Rockford said he is excited about starting his new position as city manager.
   Several Council members voiced their pleasure in having Rockford aboard as the new city manager.
   "I feel like Alderwood is going to be really well served by having Mr. Rockford here," said Councilman Torch.
   Mayor Pro-tem Greenway said he feels Rockford brings the city an opportunity to move forward into new areas to better the community.
   "This employment agreement will treat Mr. Rockford well," said Luthor. "I also believe it will treat this city very well."
   Rockford holds a Bachelor of Science degree in justice administration and a Master's in public administration, both of which he obtained from Brigham Young University. Rockford is the former city manager of Alamogordo, New Mexico, and the former city administrator for the city of Provo.
   Rockford and his wife, Sue, have six children and 14 grandchildren.






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





