
Holiday season brings rash of burglaries to Grandview
 
Date Published to Web: 12/29/2003
GRANDVIEW - The holiday season wasn't quite as happy for several residents and business owners in Grandview. Between Dec. 23 and 28 several burglaries were reported to the Grandview Police Department with items stolen ranging from guns to televisions.   Grandview Police Chief Dave Charvet said seeing burglaries during the holiday season is nothing new.   "Everybody is out Christmas shopping," Charvet said.   Tuesday, Dec. 23, a home in the 300 block of Grandview's East Fourth Street was broken into. Charvet said a small television, VCR and stereo system were stolen from the home. On Dec. 23, Grandview police also received a call reporting an automobile theft. Charvet explained that the car was found and had been borrowed by a family friend.   Christmas morning was a busy one for members of the Grandview police force. Between the hours of 1:52 and 3:36 a.m. three different businesses located within a close distance to each other reported being burglarized. Charvet said the owners of the first store, GTM Market in the 100 block of Ash Street, reported that their front door had been broken into and a bag full of cigarettes was found at the back of the store.   Blehyl Farm Service in the 100 block of East Wine Country Road was also found with its front door broken in. Charvet said 20 sets of pruning shears were stolen from the local store.   The final business in Grandview that was broken into Christmas morning was Anderson Equipment Company in the 600 block of East Wine Country Road. Charvet said the glass door was found broken, but nothing appeared to be missing.   Charvet said since all of the businesses were broken into during the same time frame and were all located fairly close together the possibility of the same people being responsible for all three incidents is being looked into.   Businesses weren't the only buildings targeted on Christmas day. A home in the 500 block of Grandridge in Grandview was also broken into. Charvet said the television was stolen. He explained that the homeowner came home to find the sliding glass door open, as well as a window.   Saturday, Dec. 27, a home in the 300 block of Elm Street in Grandview was burglarized. Charvet said the homeowners came home to find their house had been broken into and three guns had been stolen. Charvet said the guns consisted of two pistols and one shotgun.   


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


