


Lady 'Hounds head into postseason


Story by: Ellie Olmsen


Date Published to Web: 2/16/2002


The Grandview High School Lady Greyhounds may have had a tough weekend, but in the end the team was able to finish with a third place finish in the Mid-Valley League going into the postseason.
   The Lady 'Hounds lost to Ellensburg Friday night 59-46, but rallied back Saturday against Selah, finishing with a 56-38 victory.
   Grandview coach Adolfo Hinojosa said the difference between Friday and Saturday came in the form of added pressure.
   "We picked up our pressure on defense," Hinojosa said, noting the Lady 'Hounds also introduced a new defensive set against the Lady Vikings. He said it's a defense he hopes the team will be able to put to use during postseason action.
   Hinojosa said the team worked hard against Selah to create turnovers, which the team was then able to turn into several easy lay-ups.
   Leading the scoring efforts for the Grandview team Saturday night was Danelle Cowan with 15 points and 12 rebounds. Hinojosa explained that most of those stats were racked up in the first half of the match-up. Also scoring for the Lady 'Hounds were Jessica Rodriguez with 13 points, and Meghan Waddle and Anastasia Andrews with 8 points each.
   On the offensive side of the game, Hinojosa said the Lady 'Hounds did a good job of moving the ball around against Selah.
   However, the night before against Ellensburg, things were a little different.
   "Friday was a war," Hinojosa said, noting that the score was close throughout the game.
   In the first half the Lady 'Hounds were able to keep up with the Lady Bulldogs, but when the second half started the Grandview team couldn't get its momentum going again.
   Hinojosa said the Lady Bulldogs were able to break Grandview's half court defense.
   "We were just not communicating on defense," Hinojosa said.
   He noted the Lady 'Hounds did do a good job Friday night of running the court. However, he said the team didn't take advantage of several opportunities.
   Hinojosa said Andrews did a good job for the Lady 'Hounds Friday night, scoring 12 points for the team.
   "She played one of her best games this year," Hinojosa said. "She really set the tone for our defensive pressure."
   Also scoring for the Lady Greyhounds were Rodriguez with 15 points, Keitha Robertson with 8 points and Waddle with 5 points.
   The Lady 'Hounds will play their first postseason game Tuesday night against Alderwood, with the winner moving on to play Friday night.
   . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com
   






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





