


Herriman Grandview's 'Person of the Year'


Story by: Ellie Olmsen


Date Published to Web: 11/19/2004


GRANDVIEW - Thursday night, 22 Grandview residents and business people were honored for the hard work and dedication they put into the local community. They came away from last night's Grandview Community Awards Banquet with engraved plaques commemorating their contributions and the realization that what they do for the community is important.
   Among those winners was Person of the Year award recipient Jim Herriman. Herriman has been a very active member of the Grandview community since he returned to his hometown recently. He currently serves as Chamber of Commerce president, and this year he helped work on the Alderwood Valley Fair and Rodeo, served as parade chairman and organized Band and Cheer Day.
   "For the first time in many years, we had a band in our annual parade and it was great," said Mike Bradshaw, who presented the award to Herriman.
   Bradshaw added that there are many organizations in the community that have been made better thanks to Herriman's involvement, noting that he is always willing to help.
   "He's a hands-on person who wants to get the job done," Bradshaw said.
   When Herriman, who served as the emcee for last night's event, realized that he had been named person of the year, he beamed.
   "This community is the best thing that has ever happened to me," Herriman said. "This town kind of took me by surprise."
   Herriman, who grew up in Grandview, said he has always loved the community. He told those in attendance that when he lived on the west side of the state people would get tired of hearing him talk about Grandview.
   "No one could understand why I love this town so much and the reason is you guys," Herriman said, pointing to the audience. "We have a sense of community."
   Herriman said he is excited to see things happening in the community, and is proud to be able to be a part of it.
   This year the President's Award, which is selected by the president of the Grandview Chamber of Commerce, went to local businessman Lynn Boast. Boast recently purchased the historic Iowa building in downtown Grandview and has been working diligently to restore the structure.
   Upon receiving the award, Boast said he is hoping that the work he is putting into his building will help spark a transformation of the community's downtown area.
   This year the Orrin Dybdahl Youth Service award was presented to Elizabeth Jimenez, who wrote the grant that ensured the purchase of the new playground equipment at Dykstra Park.
   Although Jimenez was the recipient of the award, she was quick to point out that she wasn't the only person involved with the playground project.
   "It was a community effort," she said. "It was a collaborative effort."
   The Past Service award was presented to Grandview Police Chief Dave Charvet. Herriman noted that Charvet has served as president of the Chamber of Commerce and has been active in both the chamber and the Grandview Rotary Club. Charvet was unable to attend the banquet, so Assistant Police Chief Armando Martinez accepted the award on his behalf.
   Martinez noted that as long as he has known Charvet, he has been someone who was always willing to lend a helping hand.
   The Outstanding Volunteer award went to Dianne Torres, the manager of the Grandview U.S. Bank branch. Torres is active in the Grandview Rotary Club and has been chairman of the United Way campaign in Grandview.
   "We've been told that this lady can be relied on to do anything," Herriman said of Torres. "That's a good definition of an outstanding volunteer."
   The Economic Development award went to Colleen and Dennis Byam.
   "This couple has served on numerous city and county boards and commissions, and have been very active in the economic development of the Grandview community," Herriman said of the couple. He added that Colleen Byam currently serves as president of the Port of Grandview, while Dennis Byam is on the Grandview Planning Commission.
   This year the Outstanding Business award was presented to a new Grandview business, Brown's Les Schwab Tire Company and its owners Mac and Gail Brown.
   Herriman noted that the couple has made a firm commitment to the community and have put in a lot of time and effort into improving the highway corridor where their business is located.
   Members of the Grandview police and fire departments were also honored during the banquet.
   Grandview Assistant Police Chief Armando Martinez presented the award for Outstanding Police Officer to officer Mike Hopp. The recipient of the Outstanding Firefighter award, Kevin Glasenapp, was unable to attend last night's event.
   Someone else who was honored for their service to the community during the awards banquet was Grandview Councilman Norm Childress. Childress was the recipient of the 2004 Mayor's Beautification award.
   Mayor Mike Bren noted that he chose Childress as the award recipient because of his work on the slide show presentation that is given every year during the awards banquet. He said Childress has added a lot to the presentation over the years, showcasing all of the good things about the community.
   Many others were also recognized during the banquet, including a teacher and student of the year from each of the schools in the Grandview School District.
   McClure Elementary School Teacher of the Year is Jared Lind. Student of the Year is Diego Arroyo.
   "He's a good role model," McClure Principal Steve Kaufman said of Arroyo.
   Arthur H. Jones School Teacher of the Year is Jennifer Novak. Student of the Year is Brandon Curtis.
   Jones Principal Diann Zavala said Curtis is a student who follows through on every task given to him and shows good leadership, noting that he has a kinder-buddy.
   Harriet Thompson Elementary School Teacher of the Year is Kara Dykstra. Student of the Year is Jocelyn Rodriguez.
   "We're so proud to have her here," Harriet Thompson Principal Connie Davis said of Rodriguez.
   Grandview Middle School Teacher of the Year is Jeff Miller. Student of the Year is Krystal Valle.
   Middle School Principal Brian Anderson noted that Valle is the kind of student that makes a teacher excited to come to school every day.
   Compass High School Teacher of the Year is Charlie Diaz. Student of the Year is Merced Guerrero.
   "I have a lot of respect for you," Compass Principal Mike Closner said of Guerrero.
   Grandview High School Teacher of the Year is Carol Bardwell, who works at the school as the junior and senior class counselor. Student of the Year is Dirk Desserault, who serves as ASB president.






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





