




 


Date Published to Web: 12/24/2003


DEATH NOTICE
   LETA MARIE BLOOMFIELD
   Leta Marie Bloomfield, 84, of Alderwood died Sunday, Dec. 21, 2003, at Hillcrest Manor.
   She was born Aug. 16, 1919 at Elsie, Neb., the daughter of Mary Ellen (Rowley) and Gilbert Fosbinder. She received her education in Nebraska and moved to the Alderwood Valley in 1946. On Sept. 10, 1952 she married Chris Bloomfield in Sterling, Colo. They returned to Alderwood to make their home. She was employed at Hillcrest Manor in Alderwood for more than 20 years.
   Mrs. Bloomfield is survived by three children, Charles Kennedy of Alderwood, Elston Kennedy of Tacoma and Doris Kennedy of Edmonds; seven grandchildren; seven great-grandchildren; one great-great-grandson; one brother, LeRoy Fosbinder of North Plate, Neb.; and one sister, June Stock of Fleming, Calif.
   She was preceded in death by her parents; husband, Chris Bloomfield; one brother, Leycester Fosbinder; and two half sisters.
   Viewing and visitation will be held Tuesday, Dec. 23, 2003, from 1 to 6 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Graveside services will be held Wednesday, Dec. 24, 2003, at 10:30 a.m. at Alderwood Memorial Park. Jones Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements.
   PAID OBITUARY
   W/PHOTO
   ORVILLE LEE LUTHER
   Orville Lee Luther, 74, of Zillah passed away Sunday, Dec. 21, 2003, at home surrounded by his family following an extended illness.
   Orville was born Aug. 31, 1929 in Eldorado Springs, Mont., the son of Edward Levi and Zella Vergi (Simmons) Luther. The Luther family moved to the Alderwood area in 1935. On Oct. 27, 1947 he married Loretta Jean Worms in Grandview. Following their marriage they made their home in Granger, where they farmed and Orville was a crane operator for various Hanford projects.
   In 1971 Orville founded O.L. Luther Company, an asphalt and gravel company that continues under the name O.L. Luther and operated by his son, Arnold "Joe", and grandsons, Lee and Joseph Luther. Orville and Loretta resided for 52 years in Granger and for the past two years had made their home in Zillah.
   Orville was a member of the Operating Engineers for more than 20 years and a member of the Liberty Methodist Church in Granger. Orville was very devoted to his business, cherished time spent with family and had a passion for fishing.
   Orville is survived by his loving wife of 56 years, Loretta of Zillah; three children, Arnold "Joe" Luther and wife, Susie, of Outlook, Jeaneva Hallett and husband, Ray, of Grandview and Diane Jones of Zillah; seven grandchildren, Shannon Luther, Lee Luther (Jeanelle), Joseph Luther (Kendra). Wes Hallett (Cristie), Matthew Hallett (Asayo), Hillary Nesary (Chris) and Mallory Jones; four great-grandchildren; Joleen Buckingham, Raelynn Nesary, Owen Luther and Tomi Luther; one brother, Leo Luther of Bickleton; and Vera Barbour of Kansas City, Mo.
   He was preceded in death by his parents; two brothers, Claude Luther and Norman Luther; one sister, Nancy Gates; several other brothers and sisters; and nieces and nephews.
   Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, Dec. 26, 2003, from 3 to 8 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Saturday, Dec. 27, 2003, at 10 a.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Burial will follow at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood. Those wishing to honor Orville's memory may contribute to the cancer memorial of the donor's choice. Memorials may be left at Jones Funeral Home at the time of service.
   






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





