
Entertainment Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 10/15/2004

1-Column
Symphonyto celebrate60th anniversary
RICHLAND - The opening concert, celebrating the 60th anniversary season of the Mid-Columbia Symphony, will be held this Saturday in the Richland High School auditorium.
The Oct. 16 program will feature national award winning violinist Paige Kossuth of Bellevue. She will perform the Sibelius "Violin Concerto." Included in tomorrow's program will be the von Suppe "Poet & Peasant Overture" and the Tchaikovsky "Symphony No. 2."
The music director and conductor for tomorrow's 8 p.m. concert will be Dr. Robert Bode.
Three additional concerts to commemorate the 2004-05 anniversary season are scheduled for next year, on Feb. 5, March 19 and May 7.
The Richland area symphony orchestra got its start when 15 volunteer musicians, made up of housewives, Hanford scientists, students and business people, accompanied a performance of the "Messiah" in Richland in December 1945. Today, the Mid-Columbia orchestra consists of 60 professional musicians.
Tickets to tomorrow's concert can be obtained by calling (509) 943-6602.
 
‘Diggin' Dixie’ event slatedfor Nov. 5-7
OCEAN SHORES - Eight Dixieland jazz bands will be appearing at four venues the first full weekend in November in Ocean Shores.
The occasion for the Dixieland gathering is the 22nd annual Ocean Shores Dixieland Jazz Festival.
The Nov. 5-7 festival will be headquartered at the Ocean Shores Convention Center. Tickets to the event for all three days at all four venues are priced at $55. Single day tickets are also available by calling (360) 289-4094.
The festival sites will include the convention center, the Quinault Beach Resort & Casino, Ocean Shores Elk Lodge and Ocean Shores Lions Club.
The eight Dixieland bands that will perform include The New Reformation Band with the Oppermann brothers from Saginaw, Mich., the Uptown Lowdown Jazz Band of Bellevue, The Black Swan Jazz Band of Portland, Ore., the Prohibition Jazz Band of Silverdale, the CanUS Jazz Band of Victoria, British Columbia, the Electric Park Jazz Band of Aberdeen and the Monarch's Jazz Band of Tacoma.
 
‘Tales of the Trails’ billed as fun for kids
YAKIMA - "Tales of the Trails" is the theme of the 10th annual Rotary Storyfest, slated for Nov. 16-19 at the Yakima Valley Museum.
For the fifth consecutive year, performers Nancy Stewart and MaryLee Sunseri will bring the songs and stories of the Old West to life during "Tales of the Trails" at the local museum. The two women's repertoire for the program will include traditional songs, as well as many written specifically for this venue.
The event is billed as a program of storytelling and music designed for young people, which helps fulfill the museum's education mission.
Thanks to the sponsorship of the Yakima Sunrise Rotary Club, all performances are free to the public. Seating, however, is limited and fills up quickly.
School teachers can reserve a spot for their classes by calling (509) 248-0747.
Children and their families are being invited to a special public performance Friday evening, Nov. 19, at 7 p.m. Reservations are not needed for the Friday evening performance.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


