


Forum


 


Date Published to Web: 2/13/2004




1-Column


Alderwood library annexation vote


Have you ever stopped to think what a library can do for you? If you don't have a computer or you are between computers, you can go to the library and use one. Interested in other free entertainment? Try renting one of their movies or DVDs, as well as checking out a book. In addition, the staff can help you answer all sorts of factual questions, from books on what to name your next baby to tips on repairing your car.


What would you do if you couldn't have any of these opportunities any more? If the citizens of Alderwood vote YES, either by mail or at the polls on March 9, in favor of annexing the library to the Alderwood County Regional Library system, these services will continue. If there are enough NO votes, it's highly likely these services will not.


For the last 40 years the city has contracted with the Regional system to have library services by budgeting a certain amount every year. However, the City of Alderwood, because of economic reasons, could not maintain the level of contractual obligation for 2004, and thus budgeted half of what they have before, which is a quarter of the cost to the Regional system of maintaining it.


The Regional system cannot keep the library going on this current level of funding. If the citizens vote no, the city has no contingency plans to keep the current level of library services going. Also, if we vote no, we cannot use our current cards at other libraries in the system, because we are not investing in those services.


Annexing to the system will increase our tax levy from 25¢ per $1,000 of valuation, which you had been paying before this year, to 49.6¢ per year. This amount to $4.30 per month for a $100,000 home. Toppenish and Zillah have both voted in this tax levy to save their libraries.


Do you want the library you've grown accustomed to? Do you want your kids to have a safe place to go to play on the computer, to read or play checkers with friends? Then vote YES. You most likely won't have the opportunities if you vote no.


/s/ Joanna Luft, Alderwood


 


JUICE


The feature on your entertainment pages (Jan. 30) on the hip hop/rap artist JUICE may have been instrumental in the success of his show last Friday, Feb. 6, at Mario's in Zillah. The show was unbelievable...and crowded.


The variety of performers was great and JUICE as the headliner was phenomenal. The excitement level from the crowd was unmatched by any other show he's done.


Thank you for supporting local talent. Fans can look forward to seeing more of JUICE in the near future. His full CD will be available at all of his coming performances and out in stores soon.


/s/ Mike Burns, JUICE Street Team, Alderwood


 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





