


Briefs


 


Date Published to Web: 9/23/2004




1-Column


Fishing show auditions to be held at local fair


YAKIMA - Ever thought it would be fun to just fish all the time, and be the star of your own fishing television show at the same time?


Well, that possibility awaits one lucky person,thanks to the Outdoor Channel and the Central Washington State Fair.


The Outdoor Channel will have its Moose Bus at the fair this Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 25-26, and will be holding auditions, in front of the camera, for folks who think they might make a good fishing television show host.


One semi-finalist will be chosen from video auditions during the two-day fair stop. Five finalists will then be selected from all the semi-finalists from around the country. The public will then vote for their favorite finalist at the Outdoor Channel's website.


The winner will film their show in the summer of 2005.


The Moose Bus will be at the Oak Park Stage this weekend.


 


Hastings, Matheson plan three debates


U.S. Fourth District Congressman Doc Hastings (R-Pasco) is making good on his commitment to face off with his challenger, Sandra J. Matheson, in a series of debates across Central Washington.


Immediately following last week's primary election, Hastings challenged Matheson to as many as four debates. A Matheson aide responded to the challenge, saying she accepted without question.


This week, Hastings accepted invitations to participate in three joint appearances. The first will be Monday, Oct. 18, in a televised debate in the Tri-Cities. The second will be during a live radio show on KIT Radio in Yakima, on Wednesday, Oct. 20. The third debate will take place Thursday, Oct. 21, at a candidates' forum in Wenatchee.


"Doc is looking forward to these debates because he believes the voters deserve to know where the candidates stand on the issues that matter most to Central Washington," said Hastings' campaign manager, Ellen Howe.


Hastings added that he is eager to have details on a fourth debate nailed down in the next few days.


 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





