
Sports Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 6/24/2002

1-Column
Football/cheer camp scheduled
GRANDVIEW - The Grandview Parks and Recreation Department is offering its annual football/cheerleading camp to boys and girls ages 6 to 12 on Thursday, July 8.
To be held at Rich Leenhouts Stadium on the Grandview High School campus, the event will kick off at 7 p.m. Football participants will compete in a punt, throw and sprint contest. Those interested in cheerleading will have the opportunity to learn moves, jumps and cheers from the Grandview High School cheer squad.
Parents can register their child on-site, beginning at 6:45 p.m. The cost to participate is $1. Ribbons will be awarded to each participant.
 
Wild cow milkers, mutton busters, mini-bull riders urged to sign up
TOPPENISH - Toppenish Pow Wow & Rodeo officials will be taking sign-ups for wild cow milking, mutton busting and mini-bull riding this coming Saturday, Sunday and Monday.
This year's Toppenish rodeo will be staged July 1-3. Cowboys and cowgirls interested in the wild cow milking, mutton busting and mini-bull riding competitions must register to compete June 26-28, by calling Sharon Wells (865-5077) between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m.
The mini-bull riding event is new to the rodeo this year. Each of the three nights, six mini-bucking bulls will be loaded into the chutes during the rodeo's intermission, giving youngsters a chance to ride like the professionals.
The entry fee for each mini-bull rider is $15, and only six entries will be accepted for each night. Entrants must be between the ages of 9 and 14. A buckle will be awarded to the winner each night.
For wild cow milkers there will be two divisions—an open category and a 40 and over category. Engraved Montana Silversmith buckles will be given to the winners in both divisions. Entry fees are set at $100 per team. Entries will be limited to six teams per night.
Aspiring rough stock riders, 3 years of age and up, are invited to sign up for the mutton busting each night. Participants must weigh 50 pounds or less. Trophies will be given to each rider. The entry fee is the price of admission to the rodeo.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


