
City Council admonishes Angel (again)
Story by: John Panni
Date Published to Web: 1/8/2003
Alderwood City Councilwoman Jennie Angel didn't leave the first Council meeting of the year unscathed.   For the second consecutive meeting, Angel was chastised by her peers for her efforts in the community.   At Monday's Council meeting, Angel was admonished for her representation of the Council with the Lower Alderwood Valley Rural Enterprise Community (REC). The Council is seeking all the money the REC group has available, to help operate SunnyView Park.    Angel was scolded for her efforts perceived in forming an Hispanic chamber of commerce in Alderwood, by Councilmen John Torch and Tom Seeger.   At this past Monday's meeting, Torch brought forth some concerns he has in regards to the Council's request from REC for all of its remaining funds to help in the operation of SunnyView Park.   REC board members are currently reviewing applications from those seeking the nearly $150,000 the agency has left. Some of that money has already been allocated for other projects, such as community outreach programs in Alderwood and Grandview, explained Angel, who is involved with the outreach efforts.   Torch reiterated the Council had requested all of the remaining money the REC has available, and that it was Angel's job to relay that to the REC board, which she also sits on.   Alderwood Parks and Recreation Director Don Stiles said the SunnyView Park project was one of the projects the REC board approved looking at in late November. The REC board is looking to fund the proposal for SunnyView Park in the amount of $100,000. Stiles said he will be making the city's presentation for funding to the REC board this weekend.   Torch, though, wanted to know why the REC board wasn't making available all of its remaining money.   "It doesn't seem we were represented fairly," said Torch, who also made a motion to remove Angel as the city representative on the REC board, and nominated Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway.   Angel explained that the city's proposal was a one-page letter, highlighting its request. Angel said she brought forth the issue of SunnyView Park to Yakima County grant programs director Steve Hill, who helps oversee the REC program. Hill told Angel that the city would have to make its request for available REC money known in its proposal.   Angel told the Council that only the money the REC was putting out for proposals, $100,000, would be made available. She said the board's remaining dollars are already allocated for other programs, such as community outreach.   Juan Angel, past president of the REC board, confirmed what Councilwoman Angel was saying. He said he spoke with Hill, who said only $100,000 was available to fund projects.   Councilman Tom Seeger said he remembers asking Angel to relay the Council's wishes for all of the remaining REC money.   "Our representative is representing the Council, not an individual," said Seeger.   Angel, though, said she couldn't understand the strategy in the Council wanting all of the REC's remaining money, which includes $15,000 set aside for outreach efforts in the community of Grandview.   . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com   


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


