


Lady Grizzlies muzzle Scotties


Story by: Mel Sacher


Date Published to Web: 9/24/2004


COWICHE - The Alderwood High School ladies soccer team defeated the Highland Scotties, 6-3, in a non-league game Thursday afternoon.
   Injuries yet again plagued the Alderwood team as top stopper Fatima Ruelas was injured in the opening minutes of the game. Alderwood Coach Kathy Jolliff said that Ruelas went to make a turn and her body turned while her foot stayed planted.
   Although her injuries have not yet been determined, Jolliff said most likely she will be healing for a while.
   The first goal of the game was scored by Alderwood player Yanet Candido in the 15th minute of the match-up. Yanet was open and scored an unassisted goal, said Jolliff.
   Two minutes later in the game Highland stepped up and scored, said Jolliff.
   "It wasn't part of the plan," said Jolliff.
   Playing in a non-league game, Jolliff took seven junior varsity players to give them some play time in a varsity game.
   Going into halftime knotted up at 1-1, Jolliff said she told her girls they needed to step up.
   "We started the game out strong and at about 15 or 20 minutes I started working in JV players," said Jolliff.
   At the 42-minute mark in the game Alderwood scored its second goal.
   Alderwood's Cassie Jolliff crossed the ball to Victoria Garza, who then fed the ball to Araceli Morales, said Jolliff.
   Two minutes later, Highland scored a second goal to tie it at 2-2.
   In the 51st minute of the game Alderwood's Alejandra Benitez crossed the ball to the far post and Yanet picked it up and fed it into the goal, said Coach Jolliff.
   "It was a really pretty play," said Jolliff.
   In the 59th minute keeper Victoria Solis collected the ball in the penalty area and kicked it out into center field, where Candido was able to pick it up and score a goal.
   "That was kind of a neat play because the keeper had the assist," said Jolliff.
   In the 61st and 63rd minute of the game Alderwood's Leslie Jones scored back-to-back goals. With the first goal Morales fed the ball to Jones, who was able to put it in the back of the net. Next, Candido had the assist to Jones. The two goals were Jones' first of the season.
   The Scotties were able to score their third and final goal of the game in the 66th minute. "We had a slight breakdown on defense," said Jolliff.
   "It was fun to have some of the JV players at the game," said Jolliff. "It was good for them to see how much they have to step up to play varsity."
   Some of the slip-ups that allowed Highland to score were due to misreading plays, said Jolliff, who added that the JV girls will grow better with experience.
   The win against Highland brings Alderwood's record to 3-3 overall.
   The girls will be playing Hanford in Richland this Saturday.






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





