

 
Date Published to Web: 12/24/2003

1-Column
12-24 Letters to editor
Bond/levy support
I support community education and the upcoming special levy and bond issue as approved by the board of directors of the Alderwood School District.
The literature shows a growing enrollment in the district and a need for additional schools. The cost of $1.61 per thousand (of assessed valuation) when these two issues are approved is a good buy to the taxpayer.
As a former board member, I encourage Alderwood residents to vote "yes" on these two issues.
/s/ Don Miller, Alderwood
 
School Christmas project a success
The first grade students and their families at Washington Elementary School participated in a night filled with Christmas projects, singing and Santa. It was a great family experience.
We would like to thank Wal-Mart for its generous donation that helped make the evening successful.
/s/ Doris Matson, first grade teacher, Alderwood
 
Trip a delight
This is just a note to express our "thanks" to the staff of the Alderwood Daily News, the participating merchants and Dottie Cervantes of the travel agency (for the trip we won in the annual Hawaiian getaway promotion).
We have returned from a most delightful sojourn in Hawaii. The weather was magnificent. The accommodations were very comfortable. Our flight over and our return flight were smooth, uncomplicated and on time.
Fortune must have been continuing to smile upon us, vis-a-vis, the weather. The much anticipated long lines at the security and inspection stations did not materialize or dampen our enthusiasm in any way.
Once again, we both desire to thank all of those nice folks who made it possible with all our hearts.
/s/ Cloe and Roger K. Garrison, Alderwood
 
Food, toy drive
For the past few years I have been involved in the food basket and toy drive at the Alderwood Fire Department. During that time the caring and generosity shown by the citizens and businesses of Alderwood has been tremendous each year.
However, this year has been truly amazing. Nearly every grocery store in town donated food. Many other businesses gave everything from batteries to wrapping paper. We received huge food, gift or cash donations from school children, church organizations and countless individuals.
One little boy brought us the contents of his piggy bank. Another little girl brought us her own dolly because she thought another little girl could use it more.
All of these acts have shown myself and everyone involved here that we live in a great community, where many place the welfare of others high on their list of priorities.
With the help from all of our community members, 50 families were hopefully given a better Christmas than they otherwise might have had. I know this was not the only food and toy drive in town. I can't imagine how much good was done if the other organizations were shown the support that we were.
It has been an honor for all of us here at the Alderwood Fire Department to work with you this Christmas season. We want to wish all of our citizens a merry Christmas and a safe new year. We also want to thank all of you for making Alderwood a wonderful community to live and work in.
/s/ Bill Harris, Alderwood Fire Department
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


