
New traffic signal ok'd for Grandview
Story by: Ellie Olmsen
Date Published to Web: 1/21/2004
GRANDVIEW - After just recently completing the installation of a new traffic signal at the intersection of Wine Country Road and exit 73 off of westbound Interstate 82, the City of Grandview is ready to do it again.   Tuesday night, Grandview City Council approved a resolution that will put the wheels in motion for another signalization project.   The City of Grandview will begin work on the design phase for the addition of a traffic signal at the intersection of Wine Country Road and Elm Street, near Safeway.   Grandview Public Works Director Cus Arteaga said funding for the project will come from both a Transportation Improvement Board (TIB) grant and the Washington State Department of Transportation (DOT). The city will receive $201,287 from the TIB Arterial Improvement Program, and $76,418 from DOT in the form of T-21 funds. Some funding for the project will also come Safeway. He explained that $10,000 was paid by the store when it was first constructed at the site, as part of mitigating costs associated with the additional traffic movements the store would bring.   Councilwoman Helen Darr asked Arteaga how it had been decided that a signal was needed at that intersection.   Arteaga explained that in the past the city had an engineer come out to the site and do a traffic study on the intersection. It was the engineer who determined there was enough traffic to warrant a signal.   Arteaga added that passing through the intersection at busy of times of day, such as noon or right after work at 5 p.m., it can be hard to merge from one road onto the other.   "There's a lot of traffic at that intersection," Arteaga said.   He also noted that this past summer a pedestrian was hit crossing the street at that intersection.   Work on the signalization of the intersection will likely begin after July 1, 2004.   . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eOlmsen@hawkpress.com   


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


