
Entertainment Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 9/10/2004

1-Column
Harvest Dancefor senior citizens Sunday, Oct. 3
Floor stomping country music, to be performed by local musician Bill Holden and his friends, will entertain those who attend this year's Harvest Dance.
The Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department, in conjunction with the Alderwood High School VICA Club, will host the fourth annual Harvest Dance on Sunday, Oct. 3. The 2 to 4:30 p.m. social event will again be staged at the Alderwood High School gym.
There is no cost to those 50 years of age and older who attend, plus free refreshments and beverages will be provided.
 
Pfeifers in concert Saturday, Oct. 16
YAKIMA - One of Gospel music's most popular artists, The Pfeifers, will be featured in concert at Yakima's Stone Church on Saturday, Oct. 16, beginning at 7 p.m.
Since organizing more than a decade ago, The Pfeifers have enjoyed much success nationally and internationally. Their performance venues have included such locations as Dr. Jerry Falwell's Thomas Road Baptist Church in Lynchburg, Va. and the Mickey Gilley Theatre in Branson, Mo. The group also currently has a "Top 20" release with its song, "Father's House."
The musical group has also enjoyed appearances on the Nashville Network's "Primetime Country" and Trinity Broadcasting Network's "Praise the Lord" programs. In addition, the band's weekly television program, "The Pfeifers - Lifting Jesus," is delivered into homes across the country via 20 TV stations and two satellite feeds.
Promoters say the group's unique ability to combine exceptional vocal harmonies with brass instrumentation, along with complete lighting and video presentations, creates musical excitement that is appealing to all ages.
 
Fair entries can be turned in as of today
YAKIMA - You've canned and quilted your fingers to the bone, and now you'd like to be recognized for all your hard work. Why not enter your quilt or preserved food items into this year's Central Washington State Fair.
Fair officials begin accepting all quilt and food preservation entries today, Sept. 10. Entries can also be submitted Saturday, Sept. 11, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. These entries include both the youth and open class divisions.
Exhibitors wanting to enter their quilts or food preservation items can enter the fairgrounds through gate 3.
Entries into the sewing, crafts and ceramics divisions will be taken on Friday, Sept. 17, from noon until 8 p.m., and again on Saturday, Sept. 18, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Entry to the fairgrounds will be possible through gates 3 or 15 on both days.
Photography, fine arts and woodcarving entries are scheduled to be received on Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 18-19, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Baked goods entries will be received Monday, Sept. 20, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Exhibitors who enter the baked goods division or food preservation category will have the chance to win the coveted title of "Queen/King of the Kitchen," a new contest sponsored by Bon Macy's. The contest is for exhibitors who enter at least 10 food classes. Judges will give points for first, second and third places, and the person with the most points will win the title and an Artesian mixer from Kitchenaid.
Fruits and vegetables and other field crop entries will be taken Wednesday, Sept. 22, from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. and on Thursday, Sept. 23, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Flowers may be entered Thursday, Sept. 23, between 4 and 9 p.m. All floral entries should be taken to the Washington building through gate 10.
For more information on entering an item into this year's fair go on-line to the web site: www.fairfun.com. This year's fair opens Sept. 24 and runs through Oct. 3.
 
‘Wine Country Polo’ event set for Sept. 18-19
WHITE SWAN - Lower Valley residents are being invited to catch the excitement when Central Washington's wineries combine with the heart-stopping action of galloping polo ponies. Promoters promise a festive weekend for both long-time polo enthusiasts and those experiencing the thrill of polo for the first time.
The weekend of Sept. 18-19, some of the best players from throughout the Pacific Northwest will face off for "Wine Country Polo." The two-day tournament will be held at the polo field near White Swan (2280 Barkes Rd.). The event is expected to attract between 300 and 500 people.
This year, patrons will have the opportunity to enjoy Yakima Valley wines as they cheer their favorite teams to victory.
This year's tournament, though, isn't just about polo and wines. It is an important fund-raising event, benefiting Yakima Valley Partners Habitat for Humanity. The Habitat for Humanity group is preparing to build its 100th home in the Yakima Valley.
The cost to attend both days of the Sept. 18-19 event is $75 per person, which includes lunch by Classic Events Catering. One-day attendance is $45. Event wine glasses will be available for tasting Yakima Valley wines, and bottles will be available for purchase, as well.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


