
Greyhounds breeze by Bulldogs
Story by: John Panni
Date Published to Web: 4/28/2002
GRANDVIEW - Senior night for the Grandview High School boys soccer team was indeed a true celebration.   With winds whipping around the Grandview players, the seven Greyhound seniors basked in the limelight, as accolades rolled down for their past and present contributions.   Despite the conditions looking like something out of a disaster movie, the Greyhounds still managed to put together a decent little game, as they flew by visiting Ellensburg 3-0.   "The wind was swirling," said Grandview Coach Anne Holden. "There were very difficult playing conditions."   Holden brought up her seniors on the JV squad to play in the varsity game last night.   The Greyhounds scored early on in the third minute of the opening half when freshman Abel Meraz scored off an assist by Cesar Alvarez.   Grandview carried a 1-0 lead into the break.   Alvarez then popped in another goal for the Greyhounds at the 57th minute. Fernando Angel had the assist. The last goal truly made the game worthwhile, said Holden. One of her seniors on the junior varsity team, Jose Barriga, scored at the 65th minute off an assist by Kevin Glasenapp.   Grandview dominated offensive play, outshooting Ellensburg 10 to 2 on goal. Greyhound keeper Gustavo Martinez had two saves while Ellensburg keeper Jacob Quint finished with seven saves.   Holden said her team played very well last night. Ellensburg basically went with a defensive scheme, going five-to-six players deep in the box. Holden credited her team with being patient in the difficult conditions. Grandview was able to break through the Bulldog defense by playing a controlled type of game. Holden said her players would hold on to the ball, forcing Ellensburg to come out of its set. When the Greyhounds saw the opening, they would attack offensively.   Holden was also pleased with the way her team kept its composure on senior night. She said with the celebration it is easy to get distracted, but her players remained focused.   "They played very well, considering," said Holden.   Grandview (6-6, 7-7) will finish the continuation of this past Saturday's game at Wapato tonight (Wednesday). Saturday's game was called because of a concussion Greyhound keeper Juan Pacheco sustained. Tonight's game will be played in Wapato at about 6 p.m. Both teams have to wait until track practice is done at Wapato High School. The game will pick up from where it left off on Saturday. The Greyhounds were ahead 3-1 with eight minutes left in the first half when Pacheco sustained his injury. Grandview will then end its regular season at home Saturday afternoon against Alderwood.   "It should be a great game Saturday," said Holden. "I am looking forward to it."   


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


