
REC funding announcement expected by Feb. 2 meeting
Story by: John Panni
Date Published to Web: 1/28/2003
No announcement came this past Monday night on whether or not Alderwood had been granted the $100,000 it was seeking from the Lower Alderwood County Rural Enterprise Community (REC).   Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz told the Alderwood City Council that he is expecting an answer from the non-profit agency within the next few days. Rinz is expecting to have a decision from Yakima County, which oversees the management of the REC group, by the Feb. 2 meeting.   The City of Alderwood is one of several entities vying for more than $100,000 the REC group will be awarding for Lower Valley projects. City leaders submitted a proposal for all of the REC funds to help with the maintenance of SunnyView Park, including the construction of a skateboard park, which Alderwood resident Danny Mendoza has been trying to put together for numerous years.   Other projects in the running for the REC funds include a proposal to install playground equipment in Grandview parks, a Washington State Migrant Council proposal for REC to fund youth programs at the Alderwood Community Center, and the Grandview Port District, the City of Grandview and Yakima Valley Community College requesting $72,500 to help fund the establishment of a grape and wine education center at the former Grandview Safeway store.   Some of the other projects include a request from Alderwood Community Hospital to provide funding for health care career projects and from Alderwood Inc. to aid with holding seminars for small business owners.   Dr. Jim Stevens stepped before the Council asking for the body's support of the skateboard project even if the REC group doesn't provide funding for SunnyView Park. Stevens said he felt what Mendoza has been trying to do with constructing the skateboard park is "incredible." Stevens said he felt the Council and the entire community should assist Mendoza with his project.   . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com   


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


