


Construction of jail at county fairgrounds to begin in next few weeks


Story by: Ellie Olmsen


Date Published to Web: 2/25/2002


YAKIMA - In the next couple of weeks people living near the Central Washington State Fairgrounds could see some movement as far as construction of the new county jail is concerned.
   Jake Jundt, jail project manager, said stage one of the jail project is already under contract, permits are in place and construction should be starting soon.
   Tuesday morning, Alderwood County commissioners voted to set a bid opening date for bid package two for the first phase of stage one of the jail project. The bid opening was set for Tuesday, March 16, at 1 p.m.
   Jundt explained that phase one of the project includes two stages that will ultimately lead to two 288-bed housing facilities being built, as well as an administration building. The first stage of the project involves the construction of the first 288-bed facility, with the second phase including the second 288-bed facility and the administration building. Jundt said plans are still being compiled for stage two.
   Jundt said at this point phase one of the project includes all of the current plans for the jail site, located near the Central Washington State Fairgrounds. He said phase two of the project will be looked at in the future, when more housing capacity is needed.
   According to Jundt, bid package one for the first stage of phase one of the project was the contract to transfer the Pierce County facility from Pierce County to the Alderwood County jail site, as well as the work to transform the temporary facility into a permanent structure.
   He said bid package two includes some site work, as well as some work to the building's interior. Jundt said the site work includes work on curbs, gutters and sidewalks, while the interior work includes some structural construction, including stud walls, ceilings and floors.
   Although work is scheduled to begin soon, Jundt said paperwork has been filed in Alderwood County Superior Court for an injunction on the project. According to Alderwood County Superior Court officials, Albert DeAtley filed a petition for review for an injunction Feb. 17. If an injunction is granted, it could potentially stop work on the site. A hearing date has been set for April 2.
   






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





