
Obituaries
 
Date Published to Web: 7/20/2004

EVELYN HENDERSON
EVELYN HENDERSON
Evelyn Henderson, 85, of Alderwood died Sunday, July 18, 2004, in Alderwood.
She was born in Lafayette, Ohio.
She is survived by her son, Bob Henderson of Hungry Horse, Mont.; and one daughter, Pauline Palmer of Bellingham.
Memorial services will be held at a later date this summer. Burial will be held at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens. Valley Hills Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements.
 
JANEL CONNIE DELGADILLO-RODRIGUEZ
Janel Connie Delgadillo-Rodriguez, infant, of Alderwood died Sunday, July 18, 2004, at Alderwood Community Hospital.
She is survived by her mother, Connie Delgadillo; her father, Thomas (T.J.) Rodriguez; grandparents, Hilda Leon and Fernando Delgadillo, and Betty Jean and Tomas Rodriguez Sr., all of Alderwood.
Recitation of the Holy Rosary will be held July 20, 2004, at 6 p.m. at Valley Hills Funeral Home Chapel, Alderwood. Graveside services will be held Wednesday, July 21, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood. Valley Hills Funeral Home, Alderwood, is in charge of arrangements.
 
KIRK REED WATTENBARGER
Kirk Reed Wattenbarger, 53, passed away Saturday, July 17, 2004, at home after a brave battle with ALS (Lou Gehrig’s disease).
Kirk was born Nov. 29, 1950 in Alderwood to Francis and Katie (Kinkade) Wattenbarger. He received his early education at Dorothy School and graduated from Mabton High School in 1969. He attended Grace College in Indiana. On June 18, 1977 Kirk and Kay (Turconi) were married. Together they had two sons, Ryan and Chad. Kirk was employed at Washington State Employment Security, both in Alderwood and Yakima.
He was a member of the Alderwood United Methodist Church, where he served on many committees, sang in the choir, and enjoyed singing solos. Music was a large part of Kirk’s life. He was a member of the “Sound Expressions”.
Kirk’s family always came first and he was very involved in the boys’ lives whether he was coaching baseball, soccer, football or being the number one fan from the sidelines in all their activities. He loved all sports, especially hunting, fishing and playing golf (most always with his family).
Kirk was a member of the Tri Cities Sports Officials Association, where he refereed football and basketball for more than 20 years.
After Kirk was diagnosed with ALS, he was determined to fight for a cure by raising hundreds of dollars each year. He was an inspiration to those around him.
Kirk is survived by his wife, Kay Wattenbarger of Alderwood; two sons, Ryan and Chad, both of Alderwood; his parents, Francis and Katie of Mabton, his brother, Larry and his wife, Dena; and their families, Alissa, Wes, Kacie and Kyle Pugh and Emily Watterbarger of Indiana. Also surviving him are his mother-in-law, Colleen Turconi; his sister-in-law, Kathy Van de Graaf and husband, Rick, and their children, Heidi, Hilary and Hunter of Alderwood.
He was preceded in death by his father-in-law, Charlie Turconi; and his niece, Heather Van de Graaf.
Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, July 23, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. A private burial service will be held at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens. A celebration of Kirk’s life will be held Saturday, July 24, 2004, at 1 p.m.  Alderwood United Methodist Church. Memorials may be made to the ALS Evergreen Chapter, 6627 S. 191st Place, Suite F, Kent, WA. 98032 or may be left at Wells Funeral Home. Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements.   


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


