
Forum
 
Date Published to Web: 1/7/2003

1-Column
Recognition appreciated
Thank you so much for the picture and article that you put on the front page of the paper!
I was shocked when I saw it and read it because I feel like I am the "background" for the concerts. It touched my heart very much when I was recognized.
I really do like working with Mrs. Sleater and the high school choir ladies and gentlemen. The gift they gave me was a surprise and a blessing.
Please remember that (school) concerts are awesome and it is a time for anyone to come and celebrate all that (the students) have learned and worked hard to perform for family and friends.
Thank you, Jamie Smart, for the blessing you gave me in this way!
/s/ Dorothy Cohu, AHS choir pianist, Grandview
 
Vote YES and YES
Please join me in suporting the Alderwood School District board of directors by voting YES and YES for the two proposals on the Feb. 3 election ballot.
Why vote yourself a continued tax? It is a great bargain when you consider that the maintenance and operation levy raises $1,422,595 locally, which then qualifies the Alderwood School District for $3,744,357 in state levy equalization funds.
If we don't pass the local levy we can't receive the state matching funds. Then, other westside schols will qualify and receive these matching dollars. These funds are used for a wide variety of eduational programs, as well as maintenance, capital projects, curriculum, technology, safety, music and the unfunded costs for extracurricular programs.
As for the need for another new school, Alderwood schools have been growing at a rate of 100 students per year for the past 15 years. Since 1993 when the school board asked you to support the $8 million bond levy for Pioneer School, the student population has increased by 1,106 students. Pioneer School was built for 700 to 750 students. This school now houses 935 students with the help of 10 portable classrooms.
The new building bond of $11 million will build a new middle school, and add classroom space for the ninth graders who are currently housed at Alderwood High School. It will also qualify the district for 82 percent reimbursement funds from the state. This means that the local taxpayer will only pay 18 percent of the total cost of a new school building. These reimbursement funds can be used to update and remodel other district school buildings as they age and qualify.
This $11 million can be turned into nearly $40 million in new construction and modernization for our existing schools.
What does all this cost? If you own a home valued at $100,000, you will pay $20 per year more in school taxes.
Alderwood has a great opportunity to continue its fine tradition of educational excellence at a cost that is far less than most of our neighboring school districts.
We have a strong tradition of supporting schools, students, teachers and administrators. I urge you to join me in voting YES and YES in the coming election. If you have questions or need additional information, please call school district administrators or the YES Committee members.
/s/ Mac Chambers, retired Alderwood School Superintendent
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


