
Red wine, chocolate fest scheduled Feb. 13
 
Date Published to Web: 1/23/2003
PROSSER - Like red wine? Chocolate?   If so, plan on attending the ninth annual "An Intimate Red Wine & Chocolate Affair" Friday, Feb. 13, at the Prosser Community Center.   The 7 to 9 p.m. event will feature red wine sampling, as well as indulging in a cornucopia of white, milk, dark and bittersweet chocolate. The Friday night event is the kick-off to the Yakima Valley Winery Association's three-day "Red Wine and Chocolate Weekend," where participating wineries will feature samplings of red wine and chocolates.   The Feb. 13 event is again being sponsored by the Lower Valley Hospice organization. Event organizers say the fourth annual "Ultimate Chocolate Judgment" contest will be held that night, as well. The chocolate entrees will be judged by a panel of chocolate connoisseurs, with a $150 cash prize to be presented to the "Judges Award" winner. For entry information and rules call 837-1676.   Tickets to the red wine and chocolate evening's activities, priced at $20 for singles and $35 for couples, are available at the Lower Valley Hospice office on Outlook Road in Alderwood.      Talent contest needs performers   TOPPENISH - Cash prizes ranging from $75 to $300 will be awarded during tomorrow night's amateur talent contest at the Fraternal Order of Eagles lodge in Toppenish.   The Saturday, Jan. 24, show is open at no cost to all Eagles members and their guests.   For show time information and to sign up to compete contact Julie or Pam at the Toppenish lodge at (509) 865-2229.      Western Swing band to perform Sunday, Feb. 8   TOPPENISH - The Western Swing band of Smiley Davis will perform at the Fraternal Order of Eagles lodge in Toppenish on Sunday, Feb. 8.   The 3 to 8 p.m. dance is open to all Eagles members and their guests. The day's activities will also include a one-hour open microphone session, as well as a potluck dinner.      Farming, ranching equipment to be displayed Jan. 27   PORTLAND, ORE. - An estimated $40 million worth of farming and ranching equipment will be on display at the 35th annual Northwest Agricultural Show at the Oregon Expo Center, Jan. 27-29.   Equipment and tool manufacturers, as well as providers of services for the agricultural community, will be on hand. Antique and restored farm equipment will be a featured attraction at this year's show.   Also, in conjunction with the ag show the Oregon Horticultural Society, the Nut Growers Society of Oregon and the Oregon Association of Nurseries will hold business meetings and educational seminars those three days.   Show hours will be from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Jan. 27, from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. on Jan. 28 and from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Jan. 29. Admission is $5 for adults. Children under 12 will be admitted free.      Adams, Floridis   in concert Feb. 6   YAKIMA - The Yakima Folklife Concert Series will present Jenn Adams and John Floridis on stage in the Great Hall of the Yakima Valley Museum on Friday, Feb. 6.   Rolling Stone describes Adams as "...a genuine talent," describing the guitarist as having a clear voice and creating poetic music.   Floridis, according to The Missoulian, is a "...consummate guitarist/songwriter with a sensitivity and control that is truly mind-boggling."   Both artists will be performing with a back-up band.   Tickets for the 7:30 p.m. performance will be available at the door of the museum that night, and are priced at $11 for adults and $5 for children.   


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


