
Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 3/8/2004

1-Column
3-5 briefly
County noxious weed board plans review of policies
YAKIMA - The annual meeting of the Yakima County Noxious Weed Board will be held Tuesday, March 9, in the Commissioner's Hearing Room in the basement of the Yakima County Courthouse, 128 North 2nd St., Yakima.
On the board's 7 p.m. agenda will be the adoption of the 2004 county weed policy and the announcement of the current noxious weed list.
A public hearing is also scheduled to preview the board's 2004 plan of operation.
The public is encouraged to attend and address their concerns about weed problems.
 
School Board      to act on bond  sale resolution
The Alderwood School Board will hold a special meeting Wednesday, March 10, in order to act on a resolution regarding the sale of bonds to be used for the construction of the district's new middle school.
The school board will meet at 6 p.m. at the office of instruction and learning, in the Denny Blaine building, 810 E. Custer Ave. The board is also expected to sign a purchase agreement with Seattle Northwest Securities to handle the bond sale.
Prior to its Wednesday board meeting, the board will meet with the Harrison Middle School staff on Tuesday, March 9, at 5 p.m., for dinner and a tour of the middle school.
 
Jr. Indelook women to meet
The Jr. Indelook Club will meet Wednesday, March 10, at the home of Marjorie Cullen at 7 p.m. The program for the evening will be a presentation by an exchange student, according to Ella Peebles, a club spokesperson.
Lucille Cullen will be co-hostess for the gathering.
 
Grandview's R.E. Powell  Museum opens March 16
GRANDVIEW - The R.E. Powell Museum will open for the 2004 season Tuesday, March 16, at 2 p.m.
The museum, located next the Bleyhl Community Library, 313 Division St., features exhibits of Native American artifacts, war memorabilia, Grandview schools alumni photographs and a vast array of other Grandview historical items.
To arrange for a group tour call the Grandview Parks and Recreation Department at 882-9219.
 
Weather spotter training offered
YAKIMA - Severe weather conditions,  such as recent hail storms and tornadoes, are likely to hit the Yakima Valley again this year. To help it detect unusual weather patterns, the National Weather Service is hosting training for rural area Skywarn Storm Spotters.
Amateur weather watchers are being encouraged to attend a special meteorologist training  meeting to be held in Yakima Thursday, April 15.
The training will be held at Yakima County's North First Street Conference Room, located in the former Pizza Hut building, at 7 p.m. No pre-registration is required.
Trained storm spotters will report directly to the Pendleton weather office, in order for it to issue timely warnings to protect lives and property.
For more information go to www.wrh.noaa.gov/pendleton.
 
 
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


