
Alderwood girls humbled by Ellensburg
Story by: John Panni
Date Published to Web: 1/12/2003
The time has come for the Alderwood High School girls basketball team to do some soul searching.   The Lady Grizzlies were literally humbled this past Saturday night at home by Ellensburg. The loss dropped the Lady Grizzlies to 0-2 in Mid-Valley League play (3-5 overall), putting Alderwood into a must-win situation at home this Tuesday night against Selah.   Simply put, the Lady Grizzlies were dominated by the Tiffanie Ulmer-led Lady Bulldogs in Saturday night's pairing, losing 62-28.   "They are a good team," said Alderwood Coach Leo Gomez. "I know we can play with them."   About the only thing that went right for the Lady Grizzlies was the first few minutes of the game. Alderwood led 7-5 to open the first quarter, but the Lady Bulldogs went on an 11-2 run to finish out the opening period. Gomez said Alderwood couldn't take advantage of the opportunities Ellensburg gave in the first quarter. Ulmer ended up in foul trouble in the first period and had to go to the bench. But with Ellensburg's best player sitting down, the rest of the Lady Bulldogs stepped forward. Gomez said he credits an experienced Ellensburg roster with being able to come to the forefront when needed.   "Everything was going great," said Gomez of the game early on. "But the other kids stepped up for Ellensburg. I think we stood around too much. My kids aren't stepping up."   The evidence of the Lady Grizzlies standing around was in their offensive output. Alderwood didn't break double digits in the scoring column in any of the four quarters. Alderwood trailed at the end of the first half, 34-15. The Lady Grizzlies were outscored 28-13 in the second half.   The Lady Bulldogs put their mark on the game in the second quarter. Ellensburg hit four field goals and sank 10 foul shots in the second quarter while Alderwood's scoring consisted of a pair of field goals and two free throws.   In Ellensburg's 21-5 run in the third quarter, the Lady Bulldogs hit nine field goals while Alderwood made only two from the field.   "They couldn't miss," said Gomez. "They just had everything going. We couldn't take advantage of what they gave us."   Andrea Phillips was the leading scorer for Alderwood with 6 points. Ulmer led the Lady Bulldogs with 13.   Gomez said his Lady Grizzlies have to step up to the plate in Tuesday's game against Selah. Tuesday's game against the Lady Vikings was postponed from Jan. 6 because of the weather.   "I have a young team," said Gomez. "We just need to win."   Gomez feels his eight juniors need to put forth more productivity as the season goes on for Alderwood to be successful.   "The juniors have to realize what they need to do," said Gomez.   . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com               1 2 3 4 T   Ellensburg 16 18 21 7 62   Alderwood 9 6 5 8 28      Scoring: Alderwood-Andrea Phillips 6, Erica Mendez 5, Hilary Van de Graaf 4, Kacee Jo Bootsma 3, Vanessa Alvarez 3, Daniela Rivera 2, Monique Montelongo 2, Lana Pangle 1.   Ellensburg-Tiffanie Ulmer 13.   Rebounds: Bobi Haringa 6.   Assists: Andrea Phillips 2.   


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


