
Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 2/10/2003

1-Column
Newhouse bill would help people recover court judgments
OLYMPIA - The Washington State House of Representatives has passed a bill which would allow a prevailing party in small claims court to recover additional costs, including attorney fees, acquired by enforcing an outstanding judgment.
"House Bill 1572 sounds like a small bill, because it deals with small claims," said Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-Alderwood). "But if you've ever been involved in small claims court, you know how important it is to you and your family.
"In some cases it may take years to recover a court ordered judgment.
"Many small claims simply go unpaid because they can't afford to hire an attorney. This bill would ensure the process is accelerated and payments won't take years to be made any more," added Newhouse, who co-sponsored the bill.
The piece of legislation passed the House unanimously, and is now headed to the Senate for further consideration.
 
Valentine dance for youngstersset for Friday
A Valentine dance for youths will be hosted by St. Joseph's Parish this coming Friday, Feb. 13. The 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. dance will be held at the St. Joseph's gymnasium.
Concessions will be available. Dance organizers will also be selling roses, as well as photographs as special keepsakes.
 
G’view campusof YVCC offers CPR, food handler classes this month
GRANDVIEW - Yakima Valley Community College's Grandview campus is offering both CPR/first aid and food handlers permit classes in February.
The two-day CPR/first aid class is scheduled for Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 23-24. The class fee is set at $35 for those not presently attending YVCC, and $20 for current YVCC students. Pre-registration is not required to attend the two-day class. Those who want to attend need only show up at the front desk of the main building on the Grandview campus prior to the 3:30 to 6:30 p.m. class on Feb. 23 to enroll.
The food handlers permit class will be held Thursday, Feb. 26, from 5 to 6 p.m. Again, pre-registration is not required. The $10 class fee can be paid just prior to the class start time that evening.
 
Blood drawingin Grandviewset for March 3
GRANDVIEW - An American Red Cross blood drawing will be held in the main building of the YVCC Grandview campus on Wednesday, March 3. The drawing will take place that day from 10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
 
AHS Key Club plans game night for local families
A game night for community members has been planned by the Alderwood High School Key Club.
Key Club spokesman Dionne Cohan said the event will be held Friday, March 5, from 6:30 to 9:30 p.m. at the Alderwood High School gym. The game night is open to all community members, and is being promoted as a family event.
"We'll have bingo, basketball and other fun games that night," said Cohan. She added there is no cost to attend.
 
Boy Scoutssign-up tonight
Youngsters interested in joining the Boy Scouts organization can sign up tonight (Tuesday) at the Chief Kamiakin Elementary School cafeteria.
The Feb. 10 sign-up session will be held at 6:30 p.m.
Alderwood had 11 separate Boy Scouts programs in 2003, including Cub Scouts, Boy Scouts, Venturing and Exploring. More than 200 local youths were involved last year.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


