Alderwood Land Grab in the Works?


Story by: Mel Sacher


Date Published to Web: 07/02/2003

Don Patino lives in a lot of places, but he didn't think the City of Alderwood was one of them. The retired rancher, farmer, car dealer and bank owner splits time among his rural central Washington farm and houses in Idaho and Montana.

But over a five-month span, Parker sees 4,151 neighboring acres to the south from Port Park and 5,024 neighboring acres to the north past Boynton Labs annexed into Alderwood, leaving him adjacent to a land grab that would grow the city considerably.

Although Patino and other rural homeowners would remain residents of Alderwood County on the tax rolls, the inhabitants of up to 16,336 new homes that could be built around him would all be city residents and eligible for services such as trash and recycling pickup.

Rather than views dominated by grasses, cows, and trees, Patino might soon look out on concentrations of townhomes, condos, offices and storefronts.

"Everyone says (not in my back yard), but that's not the issue," said Patino, who grimaced when discussing the number of homes planned and the community docks slated for the Alderwood River near his home. 

"You start talking about 2,500 lots with access to the River -- c'mon," he said, chomping on a stubby cigar.

An annexation bug is sweeping through western Alderwood County as municipalities stretch, swell and sprawl across the county to acquire new land when willing owners ask for inclusion and rezoning -- often when they are preparing property for sale to a developer.

The bottom line is municipal leaders expect a flood of new homes and scores of new residents interested in waterfront living, reminiscent of early days of Alderwood. Unconfirmed rumors suggest Swiss developers have expressed acute interest in the new waterfront Alderwood properties.

Brushing off concerns that the annexations were being hastily considered, Alderwood Mayor Luthor said proper planning and precautions are in place with development agreements.

"Everyone says the government moves too slow until (it's) not doing something they like," Luthor said. "Then it moves too fast and sells too cheap."


   
   
   Webmaster
     Copyright 
   Hawk Press Inc.
   , 
   