




 


Date Published to Web: 12/26/2003




1-Column


Vocalist to appear at Jazz Alley


SEATTLE - Dimitriou's Jazz Alley in Seattle will present up and coming vocalist Sara Gazarek for a one-night only performance on Monday, Jan. 5.


Ben Ratliff of the New York Times describes a recent performance by Gazarek as, "Professional isn't the word; her performance was sublime."


Gazarek is one of the most talked about young vocalists emerging from today's jazz scene. Currently a senior at the University of Southern Cal, Gazarek has already found her own unique style, with an inviting stage presence and a powerful sense of swing. She has won numerous awards, including the Ella Fitzgerald Outstanding Vocalist Award.


The band members who will be accompanying Gazarek at Dimitriou's Jazz Alley include Drew Pierson of keyboard, Erik Kertes on bass and Phil Parisot on drums.


Tickets for the Jan. 5 performance are available by calling (206) 441-9729.


 


‘Wild West’ show in Yakima Jan. 9


YAKIMA - The Yakima Folklife Concert Series will feature "Wylie and the Wild West" in concert Friday, Jan. 9, in the Great Hall of the Alderwood Valley Museum.


Featuring cowboy yodeling, honky tonk and fine western music, the band is said to have the best singing cowboy alive today.


The Jan. 9, 7:30 p.m. performance is open to the public. Tickets, priced at $16 for adults and $6 for children, will be available at the door that evening.


 


Dixie Melody Boys in concert Saturday, Jan. 10


YAKIMA - One of Gospel music's most popular artists, The Dixie Melody Boys, will be featured in concert on Saturday, Jan. 10, at Yakima's Stone Church.


The band has enjoyed much success, including a Grammy nomination. Hit releases have flowed their way in bunches, including recent releases "I'll be Living that Way" and "I Won't Compromise."


The group's energy and excitement, coupled with their exceptional vocal blend, is appealing to audiences of all ages.


The Saturday, Jan. 10, concert will begin at p.m.


 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





