
Grandview police have busy Halloween weekend
 
Date Published to Web: 11/2/2004
GRANDVIEW - Grandview police were kept busy this past weekend answering calls involving burglaries, auto thefts and vehicle prowls.   The weekend got underway Friday morning when Grandview police dispatchers received a call that a black Honda Civic had been stolen from the 400 block of West Fifth Street, according to Grandview Police Officer Mark Ware.   Ware said the vehicle, which reportedly had two occupants, eluded the combined efforts of the Grandview police, Washington State Patrol and Yakima County Sheriff deputies, before being abandoned at a crash scene.   The car thieves were headed west on Forsell Road, when the missed a curve at Puterbaugh Road before crashing into a fence near Stover Road and I-82, Ware explained.   The two suspects fled the scene on foot and officers were unable to get a description of the suspects, Ware said.   Two burglaries reported within minutes of each other on Friday evening found that someone had broken into an apartment building in the 900 block of West Second Street, where the walls were vandalized with gang-related graffiti, Ware explained.   However, in the second reported burglary in the 500 block of Avenue "H", two male juveniles, 14 and 15, were apprehended and taken into custody on suspicion of breaking and entry, vandalism and malicious mischief. They were taken into custody.   Ware said charges against the two males were sent to Yakima juvenile authorities.   Sunday morning, a vehicle prowl near Division Avenue resulted in the theft of a car stereo from one vehicle, while a would-be thief in the 100 block of Arikara Drive was scared away when the owner of the vehicle surprised him.   "The descriptions for the suspects in both cases were again sketchy, " said Ware.   "We're not sure if the two vehicle prowls are related," he said.   A burglary at a storage unit in the 100 block of Wine Country Road was reported later Sunday morning. According to the police report, the break-in resulted in the theft of a bike.   'There was plenty of other stuff in the storage unit," said Ware. "But only the bike was taken."   The Grandview police are also investigating a burglary in the 100 block of North Birch and a reported theft in the 100 block of Wine Country Road, both of which were reported on Monday, but as of Tuesday, details were unavailable.      


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


