


City Council says no to Dr. King holiday


Story by: John Panni


Date Published to Web: 4/7/2003


The Alderwood City Council has long been known for standing alone on several issues. Add another item to the list for the local governing body.
   The Alderwood City Council refused to take action this past Monday night to have the city recognize Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day as a legal holiday.
   Councilwoman Jennie Angel made the motion to have the federally recognized holiday in January as a legal holiday in the City of Alderwood.
   Currently, all City of Alderwood employees work on Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day. The Alderwood City Council also holds meetings on the same day.
   Angel brought the issue before the Council in hopes the body would designate it as a legal holiday so employees could be with their families. Alderwood is one of very few municipalities in the state that doesn't recognize the holiday.
   But about the only support Angel found in her efforts came from Mayor Rex Luthor.
   The motion to have Dr. Martin Luther Jr. Day recognized as a legal holiday in Alderwood failed convincingly Monday night due to the lack of a second motion from any councilman.
   Prior to the Council failing to take formal action on the holiday, Angel acknowledged the city does recognize Martin Luther King Jr. Day as a holiday with a proclamation and other events. Angel said she simply felt city staff and Council should have the holiday off like everyone else. Angel even wanted to see the day turned into an opportunity where citizens could come together and volunteer with different community projects.
   Luthor said he agreed with Angel, but differed on who should and shouldn't have the day off. Luthor said he felt the Council shouldn't hold meetings on the holiday. But, Luthor said there really isn't anything the Council can do to assist city employees. Luthor said the matter of which days are recognized holidays is something that is negotiated with the different employee bargaining units.
   None of the Council members offered a comment when Luthor asked for a second on Angel's motion.
   






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





