


Obituaries


 


Date Published to Web: 4/28/2004




obits.0428


PATRICK CHARLES MCMAINS


Patrick Charles McMains, 33, of Prosser died Sunday, April 25, 2004, at Prosser Memorial Hospital.


He was born April 15, 1971 in Yakima, the son of Charles and Darlene McMains. He attended schools in Moses Lake, Wenatchee, Colfax and Clarkston, before moving to Prosser with his family in 1984. He graduated from Alderwood Christian High School in 1990. After graduation he attended Columbia Basin College, majoring in auto mechanics. He also worked at Hall Chevrolet in Prosser. He had been accepted into the General Motors Automotive Service Excellence Program at Shoreline Community College.


In 1992 he was injured in an accident and had been in a comatose state since that time.


He is survived by his mother, Darlene McMains of Prosser; one brother, Rob McMains of Edmonds; two uncles; and one cousin.


He was preceded in death by his father, Charles McMains; and his grandparents.


A memorial service will be held Friday, April 30, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Grandview Church of the Nazarene. Graveside services will be held Thursday, April 29, 2004, at 11 a.m. at Terrace Heights Memorial Park, Yakima, under the direction of Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Those wishing to honor Patrick’s memory may contribute to the Grandview Church of the Nazarene or the Prosser Community Church.


 


DEANNA JEAN BISSONETTE


Deanna Jean Bissonette, 46, of Outlook fell asleep in Jesus, thereby going into paradise with the Lord Wednesday morning, April 21, 2004, after being taken to Alderwood Community Hospital a few hours earlier for acute respiratory distress.


Deanna was a life-long resident of the Alderwood area. She was born May 19, 1957 in Alderwood, the daughter of Ellen (Nadine-Hand) and Verl Lint. She received her education in Alderwood and proudly graduated from Alderwood High School with the class of 1975.


 
Deanna married Rick Bissonette, her high school sweetheart, on Feb. 8, 1976, after he returned from basic training in the U.S. Coast Guard. They were married at the Granger Assembly of God Church. While serving in the U.S. Coast Guard, they made their home in various places around the country, including Connecticut, California, Texas, Florida and Washington State.


In 1983 Deanna and Rick came home to Alderwood. They turned their love for people and animals into a thriving business (Lower Valley Pets) in Alderwood. They served the community many enjoyable years, making many friends until Deanna’s sudden loss of health in mid-1999. Deanna was stricken with a severe advanced-stage cancer, so advanced they were forced to immediately sell their business.


By God’s grace Deanna survived surgery and within six months was hired to work once again in retail, at Payless ShoeSource. Rick went to work part-time with the U.S. Army National Guard. Deanna continued to work in retail through the summer of 2001 until suddenly stricken again by an aggressive, advanced cancer. She became disabled at this time, but continued to live life and rejoice for each day the Lord gave her.


A devoted born-again Christian, Deanna never questioned or asked “why me?” She accepted the pain and increasing disability with a divine grace and peace of mind. Deanna truly had the joy and love of Jesus in her heart. It showed in the loving smile every day that she freely shared with everyone. She let her light shine right to the end.


Deanna’s greatest joy was worshipping, singing and praising the Lord. Her next greatest joy was spending time with her precious grandbabies. They were in her thoughts toward the last when she said: “Give my grandbabies all my love, all of them”.


Deanna’s favorite hobbies included scrapbooking (grandbaby pictures!), gardening and collecting gnome figurines.


Deanna is survived by her husband, Rick Bissonette of Outlook, also a devoted born-again Christian; one son, Richard Bissonette and wife, Irma, of Alderwood, both devoted born-again Christians; two precious grandsons, Demetrio Hernandez and Elijah Hernandez; and two very precious little granddaughters, Emily Rose Bissonette (Emie-love) and Aliyah Bissonette (Leah-love). Deanna is also survived by two nephews she loved dearly and helped raise as her very own, William Lint of Outlook and Allen Lint of Yakima. She is also survived by her parents, Verl and Ellen (Nadine) Lint of Outlook; her grandmother, Hatie Mae DeWald of Yakima; three brothers, Don Lint of Alderwood, Dale Lint of Outlook and Randy Lint of Grandview; a very special person to Deanna, Elaine Getsinger (mom #2); and Carolyn Hazzard, like a loving daughter.


Deanna’s Christian faith was faith in action. She would want to share this final message of hope from the Word of God with everyone: “Comfort one another with these Words” But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as others which have no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him. For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God: and the dead in Christ shall rise first: Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort one another with these words. 1 Thessalonians 4:13-18.


 


JACK RALPH MASON


Jack Ralph Mason, 86, of Alderwood and a former Granger resident, went peacefully home to be with his Lord Thursday, April 22, 2004, at his home surrounded by his loving family.


He was born Aug. 23, 1917 in Liberty to Ralph and Grace (Dopps) Mason. His family were early pioneers of Granger. After graduating from high school he married Evelyn Ruth Vanderpool on Oct. 11, 1937. They made their home and farmed in Granger and the surrounding area.


Jack was employed by Alderwood Valley Irrigation District, where he worked as a ditch rider and maintenance supervisor from 1956 until he retired in 1982.


He loved fishing, hunting, camping with his family, and puttering in his beautiful garden. He loved spending time with family and friends, who lovingly referred to him as “The Jokester”. Most have fond memories of being on the receiving end of one or more of his pranks.


He is survived by his children, Norma Shinn and husband, Glenn, and Ronald Mason and wife, Shirley, all of Alderwood, Barbara Cox and husband, Arthur, of Grandview, Janet Brown-Platt and husband, Jim, of Moses Lake, Richard Mason of Granger and foster daughter, Michelle Moore and husband, Bill, of Spokane; 19 grandchildren; and 31 great-grandchildren and seven great-great-grandchildren.


He was preceded in death by his loving wife, Evelyn Mason; his parents; one brother; four sisters; one grandchild; and one great-grandchild.


He will be deeply missed by all who knew him as we cherish our fond memories of many happy times spent together.


Viewing will be held Wednesday thru Friday morning at Valley Hills Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Friday, April 30, 2004, at 2 p.m. at Neighborhood Assembly of God Church, 385 E. Allen Road, Alderwood. Interment will follow at Zillah City Cemetery. Memorials honoring Jack’s memory may be made to Lower Valley Hospice or to Neighborhood Assembly of God Church, Alderwood. Valley Hills Funeral Home, Alderwood is in charge of arrangements.






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





