


Forum


 


Date Published to Web: 10/22/2004




1-Column


Privatizing water works not wise


Wake up, Alderwood! You're about to lose some more of your rights.


The City of Alderwood is considering privatizing water and wastewater operations. Although there are different forms of privatization, usually it means the city and its tax paying citizens lose control of daily operations.


How will this affect you? High water and sewer rates for one thing. Slower response time to water service requests and possibly even emergency situations, as well as water quality complaints, too.


As it stands now, you do have a voice in how these systems operate or how much your monthly bill will be. A lot of these companies that come in to run municipal systems are foreign owned, many from France. Typically, these companies do little or no maintenance to the water system and its components, i.e. changing meters, well maintenance, flushing, pump motor maintenance. Instead, these companies will reap all the profits and when the contract is up, return to the city an antiquated, broken down water system.


It takes a person at least five years to learn Alderwood's water system well enough to operate it. Alderwood's public works employees have the experience and know how to keep the systems in tip top shape. Currently, there is over 100 years of combined experience within these two departments.


Speaking of the city water and sewer department employees, what will become of them? And their benefits? And the benefits to the merchants of the city? Lose jobs, lose revenues.


You have the power to stop this outrage. Attend the city council meetings and let your voices be heard! After all, the city council members are your employees.


For more information on the dangers of privatization, go to your favorite search engine and type in "privatization."


/s/ Clint Carter, Ilwaco, former Alderwood Public Works employee


 


Theater offers evening of fun


It has been a pleasure to work on the current play, "Mame," presented by the Lower Valley Senior Theatre Company.


The play will be presented Saturday, Oct. 23, at 7:30 p.m. with a final performance on Sunday, Oct. 24, at 2 p.m. I hope many of you will join us and support the cast. They are from Alderwood, Grandview, Toppenish, Yakima and Prosser. The cost is $8 and it is being presented in the Alderwood High School auditorium.


Please join us for an evening of fun. You may even see a familiar face.


/s/ Lynn Hewitt, Prosser


 


Port story
not worthy
of front page


This letter is prompted by the the Oct. 13 front page story titled "Port sues builder for breach of contract." I have found it interesting over the years what the Port of Alderwood does is worthy of front page news coverage. Whenever they hire, promote or fire someone it calls for a press release.


Yes, the Port is a public entity and justifies coverage, but so are the schools, the city, DAHS and the post office. Is one reason the Port justifies coverage being because we are a small town and news is scarce? Or because people know each other and like to hear about their promotions?


For these same reasons I question the judgment or the coverage of the Oct. 13 article (and subsequent correction naming Tim Bardell again). I will say up front Tim Bardell and his family are friends of mine. This is not the first article covering the conflict between Engineer Bardell and the Port of Alderwood. It seems the point of each article is a mission to destroy Tim's credibility as an engineer. Especially in a small town this could be devastating to Tim's business, livelihood and family.


I do not know the whole story behind the conflict, but know Tim is a man of integrity. I know when he was working on the Horizon project he worked hard to meet the requests and demands of him. And when the conflict followed he did his best to work things out with the Port to avoid what has happened—that is being publicly labeled as well as being sued.


Anyone in business knows things don't always work out as planned. Suppliers miss deadlines, projects run into problems and people disappoint. But these things do not need front page coverage.


Tim contributes in many ways to our community for its betterment. He volunteers on school communities, gives of himself in the Boy Scouts program and supports Alderwood in various ways. It is unfortunate his work could not please the Port, but it is a shame to mistreat him in the "public square."


/s/ Deon Herndon, Alderwood


 


Win-win situation


The City of Alderwood has done its job to make our fine city an even better place to live by purchasing the Monson feedlot.


What can we, the citizens of Alderwood, do to make this city one in which we can take pride?


1) We must adjust our attitudes regarding Alderwood and the progress it is making.


2) We can make positive statements to all out-of-town guests and all our contacts.


3) We need to actively support and participate in our community to make Alderwood a good and prosperous place in which to live.


It is by setting a good example and really working together that we can make this a win-win situation in Alderwood for us all.


/s/ Leroy Ganser, Alderwood


 


Sunshine Days
a disappointment


I read in the local paper that the reasoning for cutting back the amount of time allotted for Sunshine Days was because of the lack of community involvement. But as long as I can remember I have gone downtown with my family to enjoy the food, the people and to support the community during Sunshine Days.


We did not go down to Sunshine Days just once, but we were down there for at least an hour of each of the three days that it was put on, and each of those days the streets were packed with people from the community.


I was raised in this community, being taught by its adults to support this town and its people. It is very disappointing when the very people who teach this cannot practice what they preach.


I could not quite grasp the idea that Sunshine Days was only going to be one day this year, but then I thought, one day is better than none. Well, I guess I had to settle for nothing, because that is precisely what it was—zip, zero, zilch.


I have one question. If it was up to the community, why didn't the Chamber of Commerce ask for assistance from us, this town's people? Instead, they made a decision that satisfied them, not what satisfied the people.


/s/ Sarah Littleton, Alderwood


 


Do you really love your neighbor?


So, you're a pro-choice Christian, are you? That means you're a hypocrite, too. Here's why?


Let's start with Sen. John Kerry as an example. He voted for the brutal partial-birth abortion procedure, and yet he claims to be Catholic, which makes, like any Christian, responsible for loving his neighbor as himself. But is the savage killing of an innocent child considered love of neighbor? No. Hypocrite.


Take Sen. Patty Murray. She claims to be Catholic too, like John Kerry. She prances around in her tennis shoes, rejoicing with her own life, while voting for the destruction of children's lives through partial-birth abortion, just because the kids are not hers. Hypocrite.


Oh, and then there's Attorney General Christine Gregoire. Now, she's got the nerve to claim Catholicism, too, while being defiantly pro-choice, even though the Catholic Church opposes abortion. Another hypocrite.


What about you?


I suppose you're going to say that you can be a pro-choice Christian. That means you'll be happy to defend your own life, but you won't give a hoot about your neighbor's life. In other words, you'd want protection for your own child by not consenting to abortion, but when it comes to your neighbor's child, "Oh, what the heck, go ahead and kill the baby." After all, it's your neighbor's child, not yours.


But that doesn't explain the words you read in your Bible about love your neighbor as yourself.


Do you care or not? Do you really love your neighbor as yourself? Or could you care less?


A true Christian cares. So, if you're going to claim Christianity, and you don't want to be a hypocrite, then you can't be pro-choice or support pro-choice politicians.


/s/ Theresa Ann DeGoede, Mossyrock


 


Make a difference


On Oct. 8, I began weeding, cleaning up and preparing the Fifth Street guardrail for some additional color (plant wise) for next spring. I had some help from Vianca Herrera, Cas Cedillo, Robert Ozuna, Steven Peralez, Luis Hernandez and a future landscaper, Frank Ibarra.


Then Frank, Beverly Duncan and I planted tulips and crocus for an early surprise for everyone in the spring. Bill and Anne Flower generously donated iris, daisies, lavender, basket of gold and day lilies, along with black-eyed Susans, potentilla, gallardia, mums and yucca from my yard we were ready to add more color.


I want to especially thank the helping hands that were my angels for the planting on Oct. 16. The angels were Jennie Angel, Valentin Arriaga and Alice Chopper. Without your help I would have been all weekend getting it done. I can't thank you enough for your help.


I would hope that the citizens of Alderwood would be inspired to join the helping hands in improving our wonderful city. It would mean a prettier, cleaner, friendlier city if everyone tried just a little. Won't you all think about it this winter and then walk around next spring and see if you can make a difference in a positive way, as well.


/s/ Carol Stone, Alderwood


 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





