
Entertainment Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 6/4/2004

1-Column
Autocross competitionsset for Sunday
YAKIMA - The fourth annual Spring Fling Autocross & Car Show will be held at the Yakima SunDome parking lot this Sunday, June 6, beginning at 8 a.m.
Organizers will close the registration period at 9:30 a.m. Timed runs will begin half an hour later. The top three finishers in each class will receive awards. Entry fees are set at $25.
Also on Sunday, the Yakima County Sheriff's Dept. will be raising money for Special Olympics by providing concessions to those attending the one-day event.
 
Brewfest on tap for mid-June
SEATTLE - Connoisseurs of beer will want to circle the weekend of June 18-20 on their calendars.
For the fifth consecutive year, the NWsource.com Summer Brewfest will bring together the best of summer for three days at St. Edward State Park. The event will offer the opportunity to taste some of the 101 beers that will be served that weekend.
Organizers say the festival provides fun for all ages—with the Rootbeer Garden, Zucchini 500 Races and the Brewers Keg Toss. New this year will be a Friday night pre-party for adults, featuring some of the Brewfest participating breweries and performances by local bands.
Among the unique products that may catch the attention of those in attendance are Elliott  Bay's gold medal winning Orange Infusion Ale and Pacific Rim Brewer's Ring of Fire Pepper Ale.
For those who don't care for fermented malt beverages, a variety of ciders will be served at the Cider Garden, including Aspall Dry Cyder, Brut Manoir Du Parc (apple cider) and Poire Mnoir Du Park (pear cider).
For more information on the Father's Day weekend event, go on-line to the web site: washingtonbrewfest.com.
 
Fort Simcoeto stage Flag Day celebration June 12-13
WHITE SWAN - The public is being encouraged to celebrate Flag Day at Fort Simcoe State Park the weekend of June 12-13.
The free living history celebration is scheduled to run both days, as the park will play host to military re-enactment groups from various eras in American military history. The event will include soldier drills and artillery demonstrations. Members of the re-enactment units will camp at the site in period groupings.
The defining moment of the two-day event—a flag raising ceremony—is scheduled for 1 p.m. on Sunday. Free cake and punch will be served following the ceremony.
Fort Simcoe State Park is located about seven miles west of White Swan. The park is opened at 6:30 a.m. each day and remains open until dusk. The fort is part of a diverse system of more than 120 parks and programs managed by the Washington State Parks and Recreation Commission.
 
Rock-n-rollfund-raiserat YVCC setfor Saturday
Love that rock-n-rolling music? Radio 88.5 at Yakima Valley Tech has just the event for you.
Edge Fest 2004 will feature 11 live Central Washington bands this Saturday, June 5, on the campus of Yakima Valley Community College in Yakima. The music kicks off at high noon tomorrow, and won't end until midnight Saturday evening. A new band will play each hour of the concert.
The DJs of Radio 88.5 will offer additional activities throughout the concert, such as a halo competition with the winner riding away on a free BMX bike and a "Bob for an Album" event to win free albums.
Admission to the 12-hour rock-n-roll concert is $4 per person, or $2 per person if they donate at least two cans of food at the gate for Northwest Harvest.
 
‘Dino in a Day’ event open to all local families
GRANGER - Hisey Park in Granger will again be the site for "Dino in a Day," to be held this Saturday, June 5.
Billed as a family event, parents and their children are invited to help apply the cement covering over the dinosaur frame that has already been constructed by Granger volunteers. The finished Styracosaurus will be added to Granger's collection of dinosaurs that grace that community.
Work on the dinosaur will begin at 8 a.m.
Concessions will be available at the park tomorrow. There will also be kids activities and music. Also, the Hisey Park paddle boats and pedal surreys will be available for rental.
The annual Granger event also offers BBQ facilities at the park, a pathway around the park pond for leisurely strolls, ducks to feed, fish to catch and the natural beauty of the Yakima River to take in for a day of family fun in the sun.
 
Maryhill summer concert series gets underway July 24
MARYHILL - The Maryhill Winery and Amphitheater, in conjunction with  the House of Blues Concerts, announces the 2004 Maryhill summer concert series. Scheduled to kick off the summer concert season at the Amphitheater overlooking the Columbia River, near the Dalles, Ore., will be the Temptations, Hootie and the Blowfish, and Don Henley.
Tickets go on sale Monday, June 7, at 10 a.m. Additional acts will be announced later.
The fabulous Temptations will be in concert at the winery  Saturday, July 24, at 7 p.m.
Performing for more than 40 years timeless hits and backed by a screaming band, the Temptations show is nothing less than a walk through American music history. Thanks to their fine-tuned choreography – and even finer harmonies – The Temptations became one of Motown’s most elastic acts. They handled both lushly-orchestrated pop and politically-charged funk with equal flair on such timeless hits as My Girl, Papa Was A Rolling Stone, Since I Lost My Baby, Ain’t Too Proud To Beg and Just My Imagination.
Tickets are $31.50 general admission, $46.50 reserved, and $100 dinner rail plus applicable service charges.
Coming to Maryhill Friday, July 30, will be Hootie and the Blowfish, at 8 p.m.
Hootie and the Blowfish's mainstream pop variation of blues-rock brought the band to the top of the cSmarts. Cracked Rear View, the group’s first album, was released in the fall of 1994 and a single, Hold My Hand, worked its way into the Top Ten. Its success propelled the album to Number One, as well as launching a second hit, Let Her Cry, which was quickly followed by Only Wanna Be With You. Cracked Rear View became a full-blown music biz phenomenon—selling 13 million copies.
Tickets are $35 general admission, $45 reserved, and $100 dinner rail plus applicable service charges.
Out of all of the Eagles, Don Henley, who will be at Maryhill Friday, Aug. 6, at 8 p.m., has had the most successful solo career. The End of the Innocence was his most ambitious and commercially successful album, selling over three million copies and staying on the cSmarts for nearly three years, launching the hit singles The End of the Innocence, Heart of the Matter, New York Minute, How Bad Do You Want It?, and The Last Worthless Evening.”
Tickets are $59.50 general admission, $79.50 reserved, and $125 dinner rail plus applicable service charges.
Tickets for these shows go on sale Monday, June 7, at 10 a.m. at all Ticketmaster outlets and on-line at ticketmaster.com.
For more information contact www.maryhillwinery.com or Jeff Gilbert at (425) 990-0222
 
OTH theatricals  to announce      fall production
 GRANDVIEW  - The Over the Hill Theatricals will host a special night out, Tuesday, June 15, at Country Side Catering, 810 W. Second Street, Grandview.
The announcement of the senior actors' fall project will be made following dinner, according to a theater spokesperson. The evening will begin with a social at 6 p.m., followed by dinner at 6:30 p.m.
Dinner is $15 per person for a dinner of Swiss steak and trimmings. Entertainment will be provided by the group's perusal committee.
To RSVP, call 837-3157 or  786-3990 by June 9. 
A second OTH group outing on Thursday, July 22, at Cohu's Hollow Way Meadows, 1017 S. Euclid, Grandview at 6:30 p.m. is also planned.
Members are asked to bring their own  meat to barbecue and a salad or dessert, plus table service. Beverages will be provided. Production staff will be announced and try-outs discussed at this meeting.
Try-out dates for the fall production are scheduled for Aug. 2 and 3, at a location to be announced later.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


