
Grandview garbage rates on the rise
Story by: Ellie Olmsen
Date Published to Web: 4/20/2002
GRANDVIEW - Grandview residents will soon find themselves paying more to have their garbage hauled away. Monday night, Grandview City Council members voted to increase the current garbage rate by 10 percent. This means the residential rate will increase from $8.40 to $9.24 a month.   According to Grandview City Administrator Jim Sewell, the increase will still leave Grandview's garbage rate as one of the lowest in the Valley, with the exception of Alderwood.   The 10 percent garbage rate hike will go toward funding a community clean-up program. Grandview Public Works Director Cus Arteaga explained that he set up a budget of approximately $25,000 for the program. The rate increase will bring in approximately $28,800 this year.   Arteaga told council that the new program will include four steps that will help clean up the community of Grandview. The first step will be to advertise the one-week program, which is currently scheduled to take place during the week of May 24. Arteaga said he budgeted $1,000 to help pay for posters and advertising.   During the clean-up week people will be allowed to put any debris out near their garbage can for free pick-up by a city crew. Arteaga said there will be an additional charge to pick up items such as tires, refrigerators and air conditioners, but that cost will simply cover the transfer station fee and will likely be added to the homeowner's water bill.   Arteaga said the second step in the implementation process includes the creation of a clean-up committee, which will be made up of representatives from the public works, police, parks and recreation and code enforcement departments, as well as a member of city council. He explained that the committee will be in charge of doing a community-wide survey of local properties looking for potential violators. Arteaga said a list of any properties the committee feels needs to be cleaned up will then be presented to the city's code enforcement officer, who will send the property owner a letter with information about the coming community clean-up week.   Another way the program will aim to clean up the community is through the use of volunteers. Arteaga said the third step in the program is to establish a volunteer work day on Friday, May 21. The volunteers will work to clean up the downtown corridor, from Wine Country Road south to Fourth Street and from Grandridge Road east to Birch Street.   The final step of the program will include maintenance. Arteaga said he would like to assign an employee to monitor residential neighborhoods to ensure that clean-up efforts continue in front yards and alleys.   


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


