
Nethercutt makes late night visit to Alderwood looking for votes
Story by: John Panni
Date Published to Web: 11/2/2004
Yesterday wasn't an ordinary Monday for Congressman George Nethercutt.   Nethercutt began a whirlwind tour of Washington state Monday morning, which included an 11 p.m. stop in Alderwood, as he tries to become the first senator from the east side of the state in 82 years.   "I am going to be that senator. I have the right values," Nethercutt told a large crowd gathered outside of The Outpost convenience store Monday night. "We are going to bring strong leadership to the United States Senate because you deserve it."   But to become the first senator from Eastern Washington in more than 80 years, the Spokane Republican will need all the votes he can get on this election day to unseat Democrat incumbent Patty Murray.   "We are not quitting until we win this election," said Nethercutt, as he deboarded one of two chartered buses filled with campaign supporters.   "I want everybody in the state to know I want to win this election," said Nethercutt.   Even though Nethercutt is an underdog in his campaign to unseat Murray, it is not the first time the congressman has had his back against the wall.   In 1994, Nethercutt pulled off a stunning political upset of Tom Foley, who was speaker of the House of Representatives at the time, for the Washington's fifth congressional district seat. It was the first time since 1860 that a sitting speaker of the house had lost a re-election campaign.   Nethercutt, who was heading to his next stop in Yakima, encouraged the crowd in Alderwood to go out and talk with their neighbors about his campaign and what he can bring to Washington residents.   "I am not worried about polls. I am not worried about editorials," said Nethercutt. "I am worried about the people who go out to vote."   Nethercutt told the crowd that it is time for a change in the United States Senate.   "Patty Murray never comes here," said Nethercutt. "Patty Murray is a sad incumbent."   Nethercutt went over some of the issues his campaign is standing on as it looks to garner enough supporters to unseat Murray. Nethercutt said he is in favor of cutting taxes, supporting the troops fighting the war overseas and medical liability reform. Nethercutt said Murray has voted against all those issues while in the Senate.   Nethercutt ended his stop in Alderwood by encouraging people to go out and vote for him and other Republican candidates. Nethercutt also left the crowd in Alderwood with one promise if elected to the Senate.   "This won't be the last time you see me in Alderwood," said Nethercutt.


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


