
Entertainment Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 2/13/2003

1-Column
trioNorte to appearin concert Feb. 24on Alderwood stage
Violinist Lenny Solomon, guitarist Bill Bridges and accordionist Sasha Luminsky—the three striking performers who make up the group trioNorte—will appear on stage in Alderwood on Tuesday, Feb. 24.
The 7:30 p.m. performance is part of the Lower Valley Community Concert Series. Doors to the Alderwood High School auditorium will open at 7 p.m. that night. Individual tickets will be on sale that evening at a cost of $25. Series tickets will also be available at the door, priced at $40 for adults, $15 for students and $85 for families.
Those who have series tickets will be able to attend all four concerts in the series: trioNorte on Feb. 24, Alborada on March 14, Overholt & Velta on May 4 and Scott Kirby on May 23.
trioNorte specializes in several genres of music, including Spanish, tango tzigane, klezmer and jazz.
The relationship between the guitarist and violinist, Bridges and Solomon, goes back a number of years to their involvement in the unique ensemble Quintessence. The ensemble was a group based in Toronto, consisting of string quartet and guitar. Bridges and Solomon developed a great musical relationship during their stay with the group, and have continued their collaboration in trioNorte with the help of the brilliant Russian accordionist, Luminsky.
In December 2000 Solomon and Bridges both showed up on a Klezmer "gig", and Solomon was immediately impressed with the new accordion player on the scene.
"His talent as a natural klezmer musician surely shone through, but also it was his classical technique and ability to improvise that intrigued me," said Solomon. "I remember thinking at the time that if I was to start a new project, surely (Luminsky) would be the perfect musician.
"Well, time went by and when I began thinking about trioNorte my first choices were (Bridges) and (Luminksy). I feel very lucky to be collaborating with such talented musicians," said Solomon.
 
‘Vines & Wines’ weekend setfor Feb. 28-29
PATERSON - Columbia Crest Winery is reviving its wreath-making class at a "Vines & Wines" weekend, set for Saturday and Sunday, Feb. 28-29.
A wreath, swag and basket weekend is being offered during the height of the pruning season at Columbia Crest. Guest staff members, along with Nanette Stark, will demonstrate and help participants craft a wreath, swag or basket from freshly clipped vines. Stark has been teaching weaving for more than a dozen years, and she is a partner in Prosser's Hang-Ups Gallery.
The fee for the 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. event is $15, which includes instruction and materials. Pre-registration is not required. Those who participate are asked to bring gloves, a pair of pruners and whatever other items might be needed to craft their vine-based creation.
Tours of Columbia Crest Winery will also be offered during the day, along with wine tasting in the wine shop. The winery is located 26 miles south of Prosser on Highway 221.
 
Rod run on tap
GRANDVIEW - The Classic Knights Car Club will host a rod run/poker run on Saturday, May 29, in Grandview.
The poker run will include stops at several local wineries. Also, there will be valve cover races, other games, door prizes and trophies for the winners.
The Grandview Fairgrounds will be the site of the May 29 event. Those who want to participate are asked to pre-register, at the cost of $20, by April 29 (882-2610). Same day registration will also be held from 8 a.m. to noon at the fairgrounds, at a cost of $25.
 
Gospel music jamboree Feb. 15
MABTON - The Mabton Grace Brethren Church will again be the site of a Gospel music jamboree, this coming Sunday, Feb. 15, from 2 to 4 p.m.
Several local musicians have already agreed to play, including Heart Strings & Bill Lawson, Joyfull Noise, Doug Diamond, Jeff Colson and Sue Plumlee.
The jamboree is open to any musician who wants to perform. Goodwill offerings will be accepted at the door.
 
Mike Stern band to be at Jazz Alley in early March
SEATTLE - Former Blood, Sweat & Tears guitarist Mike Stern, along with his all-star band, will appear at Dimitriou's Jazz Alley in Seattle Tuesday and Wednesday, March 2-3.
Following a stint with Billy Cobham's powerhouse fusion band in 1979 and '80, Stern moved to New York City and was recruited by Miles Davis, playing a key role in Davis' celebrated comeback band of 1981. During his three-year period with Davis, Stern appeared on three recordings. From 1983 to '84 he toured with Jaco Pastorius' Word of Mouth band, and in '85 Stern returned to Davis' line-up for a second tour of duty that lasted close to a year.
Stern appeared with several bands after that, but it was his 1993 release of "Standards (And Other Songs)" that led to him being named "Best Jazz Guitarist of the Year" by the readers and critics of Guitar Player magazine. He followed that up with two Grammy nominated releases.
For set times and ticket information, call (206) 441-9729.
 
Public invitedto enjoy the artsat Heritage College
TOPPENISH - Music, poetry and art will fill the senses next Tuesday and Wednesday, Feb. 17-18, on the Toppenish campus of Heritage College.
Tuesday, from noon to 1 p.m. in the Helen Jewett Center on the Toppenish campus, the college will present a recital by its musical staff, with a special presentation by violinist Kathleen Ross, the president of Heritage College. There will also be readings by poet Dr. Loren Schmidt, chair of the university's humanities program.
Numerous faculty members and artists will also display some of their works. A reception will follow in the Jewett Center.
Wednesday evening, music, poetry and art will again be presented, at 7 p.m.
 
Gold, gem & mineral showFeb. 28-29
MONROE - The Washington Prospectors Mining Association will holds its ninth annual gold and mineral prospecting show at the Evergreen Fairgrounds in Monroe the weekend of Feb. 28-29. Show hours will be from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturday and from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Sunday.
Scheduled are a variety of exhibits, demonstrations and seminars, including how and where to find gold in rivers and streams, how to stake claims on public lands, how to pan for gold, how to use metal detectors and how to make your own gold prospecting equipment.
Admission to the show is $4, with children 13 and younger being admitted free.
 
Dordt College Concert Choir to perform locally
The Dordt College Concert Choir is scheduled to perform a concert at Alderwood Christian High School Friday, March 19.
The choir is performing as part of its spring tour. The group is scheduled to stage two performances in Alderwood, including the one at Alderwood Christian High School. The school performance will take place during chapel, beginning at 9:30 a.m.
The evening of March 19, the choir is scheduled to perform at the Alderwood Christian Reformed Church, at the corner of 16th Street and Franklin Avenue, beginning at 7:30 p.m.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


