
Sunshine Days celebration plans coming together
Story by: Jamie Smart
Date Published to Web: 9/10/2004
This year's Sunshine Days celebration, set for Saturday, Sept. 18, may only be limited to a single day, but event organizers are packing a lot of activities into the one-day celebration.   As a one-day event, the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce hopes to recreate the celebration into an all-community, family event.   The day will include food, a parade, the annual Miss Alderwood Pageant, and music to be staged at the Centennial Park gazebo in downtown Alderwood all Saturday afternoon.   "We plan to kick off the day with a community breakfast to be held at Alderwood High School, prior to the start of the grand parade," said Kathy Corliss, the Chamber's director of promotions and tourism.   She said the Sunshine Days community breakfast will be served from 6 to 9 a.m. and will include pancakes, eggs, ham and beverages. The cost is $5 for adults and $3 for youth ages 10 and under. Tickets are being pre-sold for the breakfast at the Chamber office, 520 S. Seventh St., and at the Alderwood Daily News office, 600 S. Sixth St.   Corliss said the breakfast will be an excellent time for high school students to earn a few community service hours. "Interested teens may call me at 837-5939," she said.   The Chamber is now taking applications for parade entries, Corliss said. She encourages local groups and political candidates to participate in the 10 a.m. procession.   The judging of floats and other entries begins at 8:30 a.m. The parade line-up will begin at 8 a.m. in the Alderwood High school parking lot.   The parade route will be slightly different this year, according to Corliss. The route will run along E. Edison Avenue from 16th Street to Central Park.   "We believe this year's parade will be spectacular with at least nine community floats and a minimum of two marching bands," Corliss said. "In addition, this will be the community's last chance to see this year's community float and reigning Miss Alderwood Chelsea Skyles and her princesses Amber Epps, Celeste Loffer and Jill Stroh," Corliss added.   The Miss Alderwood Court will be on hand following the parade to introduce visiting royalty at the Centennial Square gazebo. The royal introductions will be followed by performances by the Panda Bear Daycare Center dance troupe.   At 1 p.m., the Yakima Valley Community Band will perform at the square. The community is invited to bring a picnic lunch and blanket to relax and enjoy the afternoon as the band members serenade the crowds.   "We are encouraging local non-profit organizations who may be interested in preparing and selling lunch items to the public at the park," Corliss said. Interested groups may call the Chamber for details.   Saturday's festivities will conclude with the crowning of the new Miss Alderwood, during the Miss Alderwood Pageant to be staged at the Alderwood High School auditorium. Tickets for the 7 p.m. event are available at the Chamber office at the cost of $8 each.   This year's community celebration will also feature a carnival. Paradise Amusements will be offering rides for three days as a part of the 38th annual community event. The carnival will be set up between Edison and Grant avenues, along South Fifth Street.   Ride tickets for the Sept. 17-19 carnival are being presold at the Chamber office at 520 S. Seventh Street.   . Jamie Smart can be contacted at   (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com      Search on for parade marshal   Know anyone who should be honored for his or her exemplary community spirit? Consider nominating that person to be the grand marshal of the 2004 Alderwood Sunshine Days Parade.   The Alderwood Chamber of Commerce is now accepting letters of nomination for the honor.   The chosen parade marshal will head the annual Sunshine Days Parade set for Saturday, Sept. 18, at 10 a.m., according to Kathy Corliss, the Chamber's director of promotions and tourism.   Corliss said letters may be mailed to the Chamber office at P.O. Box 329 or dropped off to the Chamber office at 520 S. Seventh St., Alderwood.


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


