


Angel, Seeger exchange sharp words at meeting


Story by: John Panni


Date Published to Web: 1/20/2002


Mayor Rex Luthor put a stern halt this past Monday night to a war of words that seemed to be getting out of hand between Juan Angel and Councilman Tom Seeger.
   Angel, brother-in-law of Councilwoman Jennie Angel, by the time it was all said and done, ended up being escorted from Council chambers by Police Captain Bill Bank.
   The fuse was lit for Angel perhaps early in the evening.
   Angel stepped to the podium to offer comments on a proposal of censure for Council members, which was proposed by Seeger. But before Angel could offer his comments on the matter, Seeger called for the Council to close public input and put the matter, which in this case was the censure resolution, to a vote. Despite trying to offer his comments, Mayor Rex Luthor would not hear from Angel, telling him to have a seat because he was out of order.
   But Angel didn't go away. He reappeared during the unscheduled appearances by citizens portion of the agenda.
   Angel's comments started off innocently enough, as he asked for the Council to consider a resolution that would provide city staff with a paid holiday for Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day. Angel said he felt the city should recognize the day, honoring the efforts of King.
   Angel then turned his attention to the motion of censure, narrowly passed by the Council earlier in the meeting.
   "The amendment that was approved tonight was mean spirited," said Angel.
   Angel voiced his objections to not being allowed to be heard earlier by the Council on the matter. Angel questioned the ideals of the Council in calling for the question on a resolution when not all of the public had been allowed to provide input.
   Angel then turned his scrutiny to Seeger. Angel questioned the reason why Seeger proposed the resolution of censure and then left town for two weeks, not being able to meet with any constituents until yesterday. Angel accused Seeger of running away from the situation.
   Seeger countered by saying he has never run away from anything in his life. Angel jabbed back, saying Seeger was run out of California, where Seeger used to be a sheriff.
   The mayor then demanded Angel sit down after his comments. But Seeger interjected and pointed directly at Angel in a heated exchange, saying he wasn't going to accept anyone questioning his integrity. Angel rose up out of his seat and exchanged some words with Seeger again, at which point the mayor had Bank escort Angel out of chambers. Before he left, Angel apologized to the Council for being out of order.
   Alderwood resident Maria Partida expressed her disappointment with what she saw take place in Council chambers.
   "You were voted to be the public. You were voted to be the best person," Partida told the Council. "I did not see that here tonight. I am embarrassed not only for myself, but for you."
   . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com
   






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





