
Grizzly JV moves to 7-0 on the season
 
Date Published to Web: 1/13/2003
The Alderwood High School junior varsity boys basketball team truly made it a team effort this past Saturday at home against Ellensburg.   The Grizzlies built a 25-16 first quarter lead and never looked back in their 79-69 win over the Bulldogs to move to 7-0 on the season.   Alderwood's JV will host Selah tonight (Tuesday).   "There are some guys who did some pretty good things," said Alderwood JV Coach Glenn Braman.   After trailing at the end of the first quarter, the Bulldogs matched Alderwood's 20-point effort in the second quarter to trail 45-36 at the end of the first half.   The Grizzlies outscored Ellensburg 14-11 in the third quarter. The Bulldogs took the final frame from Alderwood, winning the period 22-20.   Alderwood had four players in double digits. Derrick Simmons and Luke Schilperoort led the Grizzlies in scoring with 13 points apiece. Greg Gilleland dropped in 11 and David Pacheco had 10 points. Danny Plesha also scored 9 points for the Grizzlies.   Gilleland was a solid 5-for-5 from the free throw line.   Pete Marquez led the Grizzlies on the glass, nabbing five rebounds.   Pacheco had six assists for the Grizzlies while Simmons and Gilleland had four dishes apiece. Teammate Eric Crimp finished with two blocks.   Alderwood took good care of the ball in Saturday's game, said Braman, committing only 10 turnovers.   Braman said he was very impressed with the way his team played together against Ellensburg.         Lady Knights JV topples Riverside   YAKIMA - The Alderwood Christian High School junior varsity girls basketball team had a bit more success than its varsity counterparts Saturday at Riverside Christian.   The Lady Knights pounded the Lady Crusaders JV squad, winning 56-23.   Alderwood Christian opened the game with a 17-5 run and led 26-11 at the break. At the end of the third quarter, the Lady Knights were up 40-18.   "We started off like gang busters and never looked back," said Alderwood Christian JV Coach Steve Martin.   Martin said his Lady Knights had numerous transition baskets in the game.   Tori Van Wingerden led the Lady Knights in scoring with 19 points. Abby Berkompas had 12 and Jacquie Roberts finished with 10 points. Chelsey Wells ended up with 9 points for the Lady Knights.   Alderwood Christian (8-2) will play LaSalle's JV in Yakima this Saturday.   


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


