
Entertainment Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 5/28/2004

1-Column
S’side Wal-Mart fashion showon for Saturday
Alderwood's Wal-Mart store will host a patriotic fashion show this Saturday, May 29.
The 1 to 3 p.m. affair will serve as a fund-raiser for Children's Miracle Network. Those attending the fashion show may make donations, with all proceeds benefiting Children's Miracle Network.
 
Train showchugs intoSeattle July 9-11
SEATTLE - The 15th annual National Train Show, the world's largest model train show, will be staged at Seattle's Seahawks Exhibition Center July 9-11.
The illustrious event is held in a different city and state each year.
The 2004 extravaganza will showcase all aspects of model railroading, including the industry's newest and most unique products and services from national manufacturers and retailers from the U.S. and around the world. The event will cover more than 165,000 square feet of space, including 35,000 square feet featuring extraordinary operating model train displays.
Special highlights at this year's show will include a free hands-on program for youths 6 to 15 years of age, an on-site collectibles appraiser, a children's play area, hands-on demonstrations and a display of an operating model railroad and metro cityscape made from LEGOs.
Show hours will be from 2 to 8 p.m. on Friday, July 9, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on July 10 and from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on July 11. Admission prices are $10 for adults, $9 for senior citizens and $5 for children 6 to 12 years of age. Children 5 and younger will be admitted free of charge.
 
Sign-ups setfor kids summer drama camp
The annual Alderwood High School Drama Camp will be held June 14-18 at the Alderwood High School auditorium.
The camp, directed by the AHS Drama Club students and advisors, will be held daily from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Cost of the camp, which will include workshops in drama, singing, dancing and sword play, is $25 per child or $20 per child for families with more than one child attending. Fees may be paid the first day of camp.
Tuition includes a camp t-shirt. Campers are asked to bring a sack lunch. The camp will conclude with a show on Friday, June 18.
To register pick up forms at Alderwood High School or call Maisy Sylling at 837-2601 for more information.
 
Follow your nose to the Northwest Garlic Festival
OCEAN PARK -  The 23rd annual Northwest Garlic Festival will be held June 19 and 20 in Ocean Park.
The two-day event features more than 80 food and craft vendors gathered at Sheldon Field on the Long Beach Peninsula, three blocks from the Pacific Ocean.
In addition to a plethora of garlic-laced foods, live music from the Lipstick Dolls and Thunder Rose Band and the Blue Light Band will be heard throughout both days.
To learn more about the festival and the annual garlic dessert cook-off, visit the Ocean Park Chamber of Commerce web site at www.opwa.com.
 
Saturday poker run planned
GRANDVIEW - The annual Wine Country Rod Poker Run will be held Saturday, May 29, at Country Park, Wallace Way, in Grandview.
Sponsored by the Classic Knights Car Club, hot rods of all types will register from 8 a.m. until noon at the park.
For more information call 882-2610 0r (509) 698-5650.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


