
Forum
 
Date Published to Web: 5/12/2002

1-Column
Jump ropefund-raiser
On April 30th Chief Kamiakin Elementary School in Alderwood held a Jump Rope for Heart event, raising money for the American Heart Association. I am very pleased to say that our students raised a little over $6,000.
I would like to thank The Market and National Grape for providing snacks for all of the jumpers. I would also like to thank the staff at CK for all of their help and support; Isidro Caballero, Jerry Poff and Mrs. Hutchins, who were there to help and to cheer on the students; and Cindy Thompson, Maria Chavez, Shirley Pedraza, Marge Zylstra, Carrie Miller, Gayle Brewer and Kristie McBride for the many wonderful things they all did to help.
Thanks, too, to Heidi Ohler and the leadership class from the high school for their invaluable help during the event, and to the parents, friends, neighbors and relatives of our students for supporting the jumpers' efforts. Also, thanks to the Alderwood Daily News for their excellent coverage and support, and lastly the students themselves.
I am extremely proud to be associated with such a wonderful, giving, loving group of kids. The students at CK make my job the best job in the world. Thank you to everyone involved. You are all very much appreciated.
/s/ Deana Dalton, Granger
 
Cinco de Mayo
Once again, the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce wishes to thank the community for its continued support of our annual Cinco de Mayo event. The weather was beautiful and the crowd exceeded our expectations.
A lot of planning and hard work went into making the event flow smoothly. A major focus of the planning was to keep the area clean during the event and leave the streets clean at the end of the fiesta. We appreciate the helpfulness of Yakima Waste Systems and Cliff's Septic in this endeavor.
We are most grateful for the excellent help and cooperation we had from the city staff, including everyone in the police department, parks and rec, public works and the fire department.
Besides the board members who gave assistance, we had much needed help from some community volunteers, including Vernita Coffey, Jessica Zamorano and Mayra Zamorano, a group from Alderwood's day reporting program, a group from the Yakima County juvenile justice and trustees from the local jail.
Wal-Mart very graciously sponsored the parade trophies and provided a canopy, plenty of bottled water, supplies, cakes and deli trays for the event. Carneceria Alderwood sponsored the Charro event and El Valle Family Mexican Restaurant sponsored the Charro trophies. Guerra Chile Farms and Carneceria Alderwood provided the band, Tormenta Musical, at the Charro event.
Mid Valley Mall partnered with us to provide space for the car show, and KFC/A&W, Bank of the West and Hair Works sponsored the trophies. Ken Bierlink saved the day at the car show—he went home to get a generator when we discovered we had overlooked the need for electricity. K&U Auto Parts, the Port of Alderwood, The Valley's Market, Ace Hardware, Sunny Spot Car Wash, Mid Valley Mall and Daily Buzz Deli provided "stocking stuffers" for car show participants.
Thank you, one and all! We hope we have not forgotten anyone.
/s/ Kathy Corliss, Alderwood Chamber of Commerce
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


