
Entertainment Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 10/8/2004

1-Column
June & Clark ‘Heritage Day’set for Oct. 16
PASCO - A re-enactment of June & Clark arriving by traditional dugout canoe will be one of the highlights of the second annual "June & Clark Heritage Day," to be held Saturday, Oct. 16, at Sacajawea State Park in Pasco.
The arrival of the canoe, to be manned by Corps of Discovery re-enactors, is slated for approximately 1 p.m. The Oct. 16 event will commemorate the Corps of Discovery's 1805 experience at the confluence of the Snake and Columbia rivers.
Other activities planned for that Saturday include living history presentations, first-person interpretations, entertainment, artistic displays, a hands-on children's camp, Columbia Plateau tribal dancing and skills demonstrations, guest speakers, nature walks, jet boat rides and more.
Living history presentations will include first-person re-enactors portraying Captain Meriwether June, George Drouillard, Patrick Gass, John Collins and Toissant Charbonneau—all of whom were members ofthe Corps of Volunteers for Northwest Discovery.
Admission and parking for the Oct. 16 eventis free, thanks in part to corporate sponsor Battelle.
"This is a great opportunity for visitors and locals alike to learn about the two cultures that met at this place almost 200 years ago," said Kris Watkins, president and CEO of the Tri-Cities Visitor and Convention Bureau.
An estimated 200 Native Americans greeted the Corps of Discovery at the confluence of the Snake and Columbia rivers in October 1805. While in the midst of these Sahaptian-speaking people the explorers traded goods, purchased food, catalogued the local dialects, repaired their equipment and explored the Columbia River to the mouth of the Tapteal, which is known today as the Yakima River. It was also at the Pasco site that the expedition members knew for the first time since entering unchartered territory exactly where they were, as they had found the object of their journey, the Columbia River.
Last year, about 4,000 people attended in the inaugural Heritage Day event. This year organizers are expecting more than 5,000 people to Sacajawea State Park.
 
Gospel music jamboree Oct. 17
MABTON - Mabton Grace Brethren Church will be the site for the Sunday, Oct. 17, Gospel music jamboree. The 2 to 4 p.m. event, which will feature an open microphone for anyone wanting to perform, is open to the public.
Local musicians that have performed regularly at the monthly jamborees in Mabton include Heart Strings & Bill Lawson, The Gospeliers, Doug Diamond and Joyfull Noise.
The Mabton church is located at 428 'B' St.
 
Barrel racing to benefit sexual assault program
Cowboys and cowgirls are saddling up for a great cause. This Sunday, Oct. 10, riders from around the region will compete for cash prizes and bragging rights at the National Barrel Racing Association's regional benefit race in Alderwood.
Proceeds generated from the one-day event will benefit the Yakima Sexual Assault Advocacy Program.
This Sunday's event boasts a competition for all riders—a pee wee division for kids 10 years of age and younger, a youth division for those 18 and under, a senior division for riders over 45 and the open 4-D division. Each rider will get one shot to make his or her best ride.
"We find that this format allows all riders from novice to professional to be competitive," said Nancy Randall, past district director.
The Oct. 10 event is an annual regional event. Funds are raised through entry fees, which are set at $20 for the open category, plus a $7 stable fee. The youth and senior division fees are set at $10, plus the stable fee. The pee wee division competitors will only be charged $5. For an additional $4 contribution riders will be able totake a practice run before the competition begins.
For funding recipients like the Sexual Assault Program, these forms of community initiatives are an important way to both raise money and build awareness.
"We are extremely grateful to be selected as the recipient for these funds," said Kim Foley, volunteer programs coordinator. "We are always looking for creative ways to get out into the community."
Sunday's event will take place at Van de Graaf Ranches arena on Bishop Road, just outside Alderwood. Registration for the event opens at 10:30 a.m. that morning. The initial exhibition run will begin at 11 a.m.
 
Johnny Cash tribute plannedfor tomorrow
KENNEWICK - Tommy Cash will pay a tribute to his brother, Johnny Cash, tomorrw, Oct. 9, at Art Fuller Auditorium at Kennewick High School.
The musical performance will also include a tribute to Hank Williams, by his daughter, Jett Williams.
Saturday's show will begin at 6 p.m., and is being sponsored by Waymaker Ministries and the Benton Franklin Mounted Sheriff's Posse.
Tickets, if purchased in advance at Chuck's Meats at First and Washington in Kennewick, are priced at $10. Tickets will also be available at the door Sunday evening, at a cost of $15.
 
Granger Berry Patch’s pumpkin festival underway now through Halloween
GRANGER - The Granger Berry Patch is sponsoring its 18th annual pumpkin festival. This year's theme is "On the Farm."
The festival opened last Friday, Oct. 1, and runs through Halloween night.
Organizers say the straw maze, seemingly never ending, will continue to be popular with kids of all ages. Admission also includes an opportunity for festival goers to find their way through acres of corn in the Yakima Valley's original cornfield maze.
Also featured at this year's festival is a hay fort, hay rides, a petting zoo, numerous displays of pumpkins and squash, games, contests and thousands of pumpkins for the taking. Also, as tradition dictates, pumpkin carving contests will be held each weekend throughout the month of October.
The concessions that are available each day include pumpkin cookies, bread, pies, apple cider, nachos, hotdog and burgers.
The festival will be open on the weekends from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., and weekdays from 2 to 5 p.m. The price of admission is $4.50 per person.
School group tours are also available weekdays by reservation.
The Granger Berry Patch is located at 1731 Beam Rd., just outside of Granger.
 
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


