
Sports Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 6/11/2002

1-Column
6-11 Sports briefs
Summer Jam returns to S’side
The second annual Alderwood Summer Jam will be held at the Mid-Valley Mall the weekend of July 10-11.
The 3-on-3 basketball tournament offers numerous divisions of play for youngsters and adults, alike. Registration fees are set at $60 for youth teams and $70 for adult teams. All sign-ups are being handled by the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce (837-5939).
Tourney organizers report that team packets and t-shirts will be distributed during check-in, at 8 a.m. on Saturday. Each team is guaranteed to play a minimum of three games in the round-robin format.
 
Nozaka, Stotz, Hector, Andrews, Bowlsby grabfirst place finishes
RICHLAND - Black Rock Creek's golfers found Columbia Point Golf Course to their liking this past Monday.
Competing at a PGA Central Washington chapter pro-am series event, five of Black Rock Creek's members scored a first place finish Monday. The winners included Souta Nozaka, Chad Stotz, Kelly Hector, Scott Andrews and Geoff Bowlsby.
Nozaka won top honors among all the amateurs, carding a tourney best five-under 67. Stotz finished in an eight-way tie for low net honors among amateur division #1 golfers by shooting a handicap-aided 66. Hector was one of three golfers to tie for low net honors among amateur division #2 golfers with a 66. Andrews and Bowlsby shared amateur division #3 low net honors with six others, all posting 66's.
The low professional round of the day was turned in by Von Wells of Desert Canyon Resort. Wells posted an eight-under 64.
 
S’side Boosters stage tournament
Two squads tied for top honors this past weekend in the second annual Alderwood High School Boosters Club Golf Tournament, staged at Black Rock Creek Golf Course.
The two four-person teams carded 13-under 59's playing a scramble format. The winning teams were comprised of Gary Rohde, Larry O'Brian, Russ Phillips and Brad Shreeve; and Zach Wanderscheid, Tim Taylor, Juston Bos and Andrew Swinehart.
Placing third with a 61 was the foursome of Lance Den Boer, Bob Van de Graff, Tim Stewart and Duane Schutt.
In the handicap-aided net division, the foursome of Dana Carr, Candice Flores, Chet Terrell and Tom Monroe placed first with a 51.75. Second place net finishers, with a 52.75, were Jason Ross, Jeff Ross, Penny Ross and Tayana Rogers. The third place net team, with a 53.60, was made up of Rae Ann Goin, Mike Cantwell, Ken Goin and Kari Hunt.
 
Swim lessonsstart next Monday
Monday, June 14, swim lessons get underway at the Alderwood municipal pool.
Local parks and rec officials report that Alderwood residents can register for the lessons during regular pool hours.
Lessons are being offered Mondays through Fridays, half an hour at a time, during each two-week session. The cost is $20 for in-city residents and $26 for those residing outside the city limits.
 
Soapbox derby practice run setto be held June 26
All those racers planning to compete in the sixth annual Alderwood Soapbox Derby are invited to test out their cars on Saturday, June 26.
The practice run at the hill next to Central Park will begin at 11 a.m.
The derby, itself, will be held during Alderwood's annual Fourth of July celebration, on Saturday, July 3. Three divisions of competition are offered: youths 7 to 14 years of age, adults and the Mayor's Challenge Cup for all city and county officials.
Registration fees range from $10 to $25. Registration forms are still available a the Alderwood parks and rec office. The deadline to sign up to compete is Monday, June 21.
 
Volleyball camp open to girls
The Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department will sponsor a volleyball camp for girls on July 12, 14 and 16 at the Alderwood High School gym. The three-day summer camp is open to girls in the 7th through 12th grades.
Seventh and eighth grade girls will attend from 9 to 10:30 a.m. each of the three days, learning basic skills development in passing, serving, hitting and stragegies.
Girls in 9th through 12th grades can register for the hitters camp (10:30 a.m. to noon) or for the setter/defense camp (12:30 to 2 p.m.). Sign-ups are being conducted at the local parks and rec office.
Camp fees are set at $25. For high school aged girls who want to attend both sessions, the fee is $35. All girls who attend will receive a camp t-shirt.
This year's camp will be directed by Alderwood High School varsity volleyball coach Angel Whalen.
 
Grade school boys invited to hoop camp June 15-16
Alderwood High School varsity boys basketball coach Steve Urrutia will be the director of the annual Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department summer basketball camp for grade school boys.
This year's camp will be held June 15-16, from 1 to 3 p.m. both days. The camp is open to boys who will be in the first through sixth grades this fall.
Sign-ups are underway at the local parks and rec office. The $20 registration fee includes the cost of a camp t-shirt.
 
Summer hoop camp for girlsset for June 15-16
The Alderwood Parks and Recreation Girls Summer Classic Basketball Camp will be held next Tuesday and Wednesday, June 15-16.
Alderwood High School varsity girls basketball coach Leo Gomez will serve as camp director. The 9 a.m. to noon camp is open to girls in the first through sixth grades.
Girls can register at the local parks and rec office, at a cost of $20, which includes the price of a camp t-shirt.
 
Golf Fore Life tourney June 19
The Lower Valley Pregnancy Center will host its Golf Fore Life Tournament Saturday, June 19, at Alderwood's Black Rock Creek Golf Course.
Participants are invited to set a goal of golfing 100 holes that day.
Last year's event drew 27 golfers to Black Rock Creek for an early morning breakfast and a long day of golf. They helped raise more than $20,000 through pledges they obtained from family and friends.
Sign-up information on the tourney is available by calling Jan McDonald at 882-1899.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


