


Victory over Cascade sends Grandview to second round of District play


Story by: Ellie Olmsen


Date Published to Web: 11/5/2004


GRANDVIEW - The Grandview High School volleyball team didn't let a little thing like playing in the first game of Districts shake their confidence Thursday night. Instead, the Lady Greyhounds pushed forward with their season-long winning streak, sending the Cascade Kodiaks home without a game win.
   The Grandview team swept past Cascade, winning by scores of 25-22, 25-13, 25-19.
   Grandview Coach John LaFever said going into the match his team knew they would be faced with some tough competition.
   "We knew they had some really athletic girls and some girls who jumped really well," LaFever said. He added that they also knew that Cascade had beat some teams that were ranked above them and had recently been in some really close matches. He noted that Cascade had beaten Omak and barely lost to Chelan.
   Although they knew it would be a hard fought match, the Lady 'Hounds went into it with a plan - play consistently.
   "We want to be really consistent when we play," LaFever said.
   And consistency is what helped the Lady 'Hounds rally past the Kodiaks.
   According to LaFever, both Tonhya Wysong and Valentina Solis kept up their games, working hard against the Cascade team. He said going into the match, the team was also looking for senior Danelle Cowan to step up her serves, which she was able to do.
   Wysong finished the night with 21 digs; Solis had 12 kills, 6 digs, 7 blocks and 9 service points; and Cowan had 13 kills, 11 digs, 3 blocks and 11 service points.
   Also helping out the 'Hounds were Angie Cabrera with 11 digs; Mari Cornejo with 6 kills and 6 digs; setter Chante Bottineau with 30 assists and 6 digs; Jessica Gonzalez with 1 ace; and Kealey Johnston with 4 kills, 15 digs and 9 service points.
   The Lady 'Hounds are now just one match away from playing at the State tournament. However, before they can look to State, the Grandview team will have to face off against Ephrata in the second round of District action.
   Grandview will take to the court Saturday at noon in Ephrata. The winner of the match will advance to State, which will be played in Yakima.






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





