
Alderwood freshmen sustain first defeat of 2004 season
Story by: Bob Story
Date Published to Web: 9/23/2004
PROSSER - The Alderwood High School freshman football team gave Prosser a run for its money this past Monday. But in the end, the vaunted Mustang grid program proved to be too much for the Grizzlies.   Alderwood took the early lead on the Prosser freshmen, when Joseph Villanueva bulldozed his way into the end zone from a yard out. The score came in the opening quarter.   "On our first possession of the game we were forced to punt," said AHS Coach Glenn Braman. "But the ball deflected off a player and we recovered it. We drove about 40 yards, with (Villanueva) capping it off with a one-yard touchdown run."   The missed PAT left Alderwood with a 6-0 lead.   Prosser's quarterback, in the second quarter, eluded Alderwood's defenders and broke off a 12-yard TD scamper. The successful exra point kick gave the Mustangs a 7-6 advantage.   The Mustang squad increased its lead to 14-6 on its first possession of the second half. Prosser capped off the drive with a 5-yard TD run. Prosser scored again in the third quarter, after the Grizzly freshmen gave the Mustangs excellent field position.   "We only got off about a 10-yard punt," said Braman. "That gave Prosser the ball at about our 20-yard line. They punched it in from there," he said.   Alderwood cut the deficit to 21-12 in the fourth quarter, when Villanueva scampered into the end zone from 10 yards out. The Grizzlies attempted a 2-point conversion pass, but it failed.   Neither club scored again in the game.   Braman doesn't have individual numbers from Monday's contest, but said Villanueva rushed for close to 100 yards.   In comparing Monday's game with last year's outing against the Prosser freshmen, Braman was pleased with the effort of his club this week.   "Last year, I think Prosser scored on just about every possession," he said. "This time around, they were only able to score on three of their possessions.   "Defensively, I thought our kids played awesome. We made them punt six times. And, we had two fourth down stops against Prosser inside our 10-yard line," Braman recounted.   "All of our kids worked very hard Monday night.   "And the good thing is, we get to take on Prosser again next Monday on our home field. It's not every season you get to play a team twice, but this year we'll get the chance to turn the tables on them," Braman added.   The Alderwood freshman squad is now 2-1 on the season.


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


