
Entertainment Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 7/23/2003

1-Column
Mt. Hood Railroad helps make Harvest Fest bigger, better this year
PARKDALE, ORE. - Mt. Hood Railroad will celebrate Hood Rid (786-2163).ival Weekend by holding an outdoor fine arts and musical festival in Parkdale.
The Saturday and Sunday, Oct. 16-17, event will be free to the public, and will feature more than 25 local and regional artists, as well as live music throughout both days.
Harvest Festival Weekend celebrates the bounty of the season.
The event in Parkdale offers a variety of activities, as well as an opportunity to purchase fresh produce with majestic Mt. Hood as the backdrop. Parkdale is located 16 miles from Hood River, Ore., on Cooper Spur Road, approximately three miles off of Hwy. 35. The event will be held in the town's park.
For visitors wishing to view the fall colors throughout the Hood River Valley by rail, the Mt. Hood Railroad excursion train will depart Hood River at 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. both days.
 
Pioneer eventon tap July 31
Ellensburg - The Kittitas County Historical Museum will host its second annual “Who Wants to be a Pioneer?” event on July 31 and again on August 21, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the historic Cadwell Building in downtown Ellensburg.
“Who Wants to be a Pioneer?” offers families numerous opportunities to relax together in a fun and educational environment. Adults and children alike can learn about the rich history of the Kittitas Valley through fun, hands-on activities.
Activities at the event will include, but are not limited to: candle making, flower pressing, butter churning, ice cream making and various live demonstrations and other historically valuable trades used by the pioneers.
For more information contact Erin Black, museum curator, at (509) 925 3778 or kchm@elltel.net
 
Kiwanis pioneer picnic Aug. 18
UNION GAP - This year's Kiwanis pioneer picnic, expected to draw about 700 senior citizens, will be held Wednesday, Aug. 18, at noon at Union Gap's Ahtanum Park.
There is no cost to those over the age of 60. Guests under 60 years old will be assessed a $4.50 fee to attend the picnic.
This year's menu includes BBQ chicken, potato salad, baked beans, fresh tomatoes, rolls, watermelon, milk and soft drinks.
Organizers say those who attend will not only enjoy a fine feast, but will be treated to live entertainment and have the opportunity to visit friends they haven't seen for years, as well.
The Kiwanis pioneer picnic is being sponsored by several Upper Yakima Valley Kiwanis clubs, as well as by the Yakima County Parks Department, the Yakima City Parks Department and the Yakima County Department of Food Services.
Attendance is limited, so reservations are required and will be accepted beginning Aug. 1 (1-800-572-7354, ext. 2200).
 
‘Rose' Renaissance’ wine tasting, dinner set for this Saturday
PROSSER - Prosser's Vintner's Inn Restaurant will be the site of the "Yakima Valley Rose' Renaissance" this Saturday, July 24, beginning at 6:30 p.m.
The event will start off with a 'meet the makers' tasting, where guests will sample Roses' made by five of the Valley's premier Rose' producers, along with matching hors d'oeuvres.
"When I started in the wine business in the early 70's, Roses' were very popular wines, accounting for 25 to 30 percent of all wines sold," said Mike Wallace, Hinzerling's winemaker and proprietor.
"Most of the ones being made those days were from Europe and were fruity, sweet and on the light side," he explained.
Wallace said Mateus and Lancers were probably the most well known. But after a decade or so, said Wallace, the Roses' began losing ground to light red and white wines, "...like those we produced here in the 80's and to some extent were replaced by blush wines.
"In recent years, a number of winemakers here in the Valley have been making some really fine drier style Roses' from all kinds of grape varieties," he continued. "With lots of the fruity and spicy wine flavors our area is so well known for, these wines are well suited to summer foods, especially barbecue and grilled items."
Wallace said after tasting a number of them over the last few years, he and others thought it would be fun to get some of these winemakers and wines together. Hence, tomorrow's "Yakima Valley Rose' Renaissance."
Following the 6:30 p.m. social hour tasting, attendees will dine on a barbecue of spice-rubbed grilled pork chops and an assortment of salads and sauteed vegetables. Roses' will be available by the glass to accompany the meal.
The participating wineries will include Two Mountain, Tucker Cellars, Vineheart, Hinzerling and Paradisos del Sol.
Reservations for tomorrow evening's event can be made by calling 786-2163.
 
‘Dance in the Streets’ event Saturday, July 31
YAKIMA - Planned Parenthood of Central Washington will hold its first ever "Dance in the Streets" event Saturday, July 31. It will be held on North Front Street in Yakima from 6 to 11 p.m., and will include live music, food and drinks.
The music will start at 6 p.m. with Wayman Chapman, a local favorite, to be followed by the X-Band—a local classic rock cover band.
Providing special menus for the evening will be The Barrel House, Bob's Keg and Cork, Cafe Melange, Carousel, The Depot, Grant's, Greystone, BBQ Works and Santiago's Restaurant.
Organizers will be serving Grant's beer and local wines from Wineglass Cellars, Hogue Cellars, Desert Hills, Thurston Wolfe and Bonair Winery.
Tickets are $25 in advance and $30 the night of the event. Those who attend must be at least 21 years of age. VIP tables are available. Tickets or tables can be reserved by calling (509) 225-3400.
Proceeds generated that evening will benefit the Planned Parenthood organization.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


