


Alderwood police, WSP seek 'most wanted'


Story by: Melissa Browning


Date Published to Web: 2/16/2002


With new technology available to law enforcement officers, the Washington State Patrol has launched a link to their website dedicated to the agency's "most wanted."
   The website lists 23 of the most wanted people in Washington state, who are believed to have been involved in vehicular homicides, hit-and-runs and vehicular assaults.
   In 2003 alone the WSP investigated 178 felony collisions state-wide. Of the 178 collisions, 45 were vehicular homicides where one or more citizens died as a result of someone else driving drunk, according to Capt. Brian Ursino of the Washington State Patrol Criminal Investigation Division. One hundred and two were vehicular assaults in which citizens were seriously injured due to someone else driving drunk, and 21 were felony hit-and run collisions where persons were injured and the suspects left the scene.
   "We are seeking help from the public to find these people who have fled police and have left numerous families with pain, loss and grief," said Ursino.
   Cases stem back to 1993.
   Recently, two persons listed on the WSP's most wanted were arrested.
   Armondo Posadas Hernandez was arrested in Denver, Col. and is being returned to Yakima, where he faces charges of vehicular assault. Hernandez is believed to have caused a two-vehicle accident at the intersection of Lateral 1 and Lateral C roads in the Lower Valley Aug. 23, 1997. Both Hernandez's passenger and an occupant in the other vehicle were seriously injured, according to the WSP.
   This month Jacquelyn Kay Jim turned herself into Walla Walla County Jail authorities. She was arrested a year to the date of a one-vehicle collision on State Route 124 that seriously injured her passenger. A warrant was issued for her arrest regarding a vehicular assault charge.
   Four men are still being sought by the Washington State Patrol for cases originating in the Alderwood Valley. They are Gregorio Rios-Gonzalez, Rigoberto Serrano Martinez, Alejandro Sanchez Flores and Gerardo Angel Figueroa.
   Rios-Gonzalez, 22, who was last known to live in Toppenish, is wanted by the WSP for vehicular homicide.
   The suspect was allegedly driving eastbound on Lateral 1 Road when he ran a stop sign at Lateral A and struck another vehicle. His passenger died in the accident. WSP officials determined that Rios-Gonzalez was drinking at the time of the crash.
   Martinez, who was last known to be living in the Yakima area, is also wanted for vehicular homicide. In July 1999, Martinez had been drinking when he was involved in a one-vehicle rollover on State Route 24, according to the WSP. His passenger died as a result of injuries. The suspect, who has identifying scars on his head and face, was also seriously injured. He fled after being released from the hospital.
   Alejandro Sanchez Flores, 32, of Newburgh, NY, was involved in a motor vehicle accident October of 1994 on I-82 near milepost 39. The suspect had been drinking, according to WSP officials. His passenger was seriously injured and Flores fled after his court appearance.
   Figueroa, 42, of Zillah, was involved in an all-terrain vehicle fatality collision Aug. 17, 1992. The wreck happened on Thacker Road near Granger. Investigators determined the suspect had been drinking and Figueroa fled during the investigation. He is wanted for vehicular homicide.
   The Alderwood Police Department also has a most wanted list of its own.
   On the list are suspects the department has been unable to locate, many of which have failed to appear for court or comply with the court's ruling, according to officials.
   Alderwood resident Adrian Arce, 21, is wanted by the Alderwood police for his alleged involvement in an unattended hit and run accident, which has three counts of failure to appear and failure to comply tacked onto it.
   He is also wanted for failure to appear or comply with court rulings on cases of malicious mischief as well as for driving under the influence and first degree driving while license suspended.
   39-year-old Fernando Rodriguez has five warrants for his arrest issued by the Alderwood Municipal Court. Rodriguez is wanted for four counts of failure to pay a fine on third degree driving while license suspended charges. He is also being sought for failing to pay a fine on a third degree theft charge.
   Carlos Martinez, 21, who was last known to live in the Alderwood area, has warrants for his arrest on failure to appear in court and failure to pay a fine on charges of violation of a no-contact order, giving false and misleading statements to police, fourth degree domestic violence assault and two counts of third degree escape.
   Ramon P. Martinez, 22, of Alderwood is wanted for failure to comply with court orders on a charge of third degree driving while license suspended and a failure to pay a fine for a charge of minor in possession and/or consumption of alcohol. Martinez is also being sought on charges of possession of marijuana, disorderly conduct, minor in possession and/or consumption of alcohol and third degree driving while license suspended.
   Gilbert Vela Peralez, 34, last known to live in Alderwood, is being sought on warrants for domestic violence, violation of a no contact order and third degree malicious mischief. He is also wanted for two counts of fourth degree domestic violence assault, four counts of violation of a no contact order and possession of marijuana.
   Veronica M. Fuentes, 22, is wanted on three charges of minor in possession and/or consumption of alcohol, obstructing a law enforcement officer and fourth degree assault.
   Luciano Cortez, 22, last known to have lived in Alderwood, is wanted for failing to appear in court on charges of resisting arrest, possession of marijuana, fourth degree domestic violence assault and second degree driving while license suspended. He is also wanted for failure to appear and failure to pay a court fine on a charge of possession and/or consumption of alcohol. Cortez is also wanted on two counts of first degree driving while license suspended and operating a motor vehicle without an ignition lock.
   Allen Ray Wilcowski, 25, is being sought by local police on charges of fourth degree domestic violence assault and violation of a no contact order.
   Humberto Miranda Linares, 25, has warrants for his arrest on charges of failure to appear in court for a driving while under the influence hit and run charge and a separate charge of driving under the influence.
   Those wanting information on the WSP's "most wanted" list can find the listing by going to the Washington State Patrol website, www.wsp.wa.gov or by accessing the website directly at www.wsp.wa.gov/crime/wanted.html. The website features information on the suspect, photos, distinguishing marks or tattoos and their last known address.
   
   






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





