
Obituaries
 
Date Published to Web: 10/13/2004

STEPHEN RISDON PECK
STEPHEN RISDON PECK
    Stephen Risdon Peck, 62, of Shoreline died peacefully Saturday, Oct. 9, 2004, at home after a courageous five year battle against brain cancer.
Steve was born on Feb. 7, 1942 in Wenatchee to James and Maxine Peck. He grew up in Alderwood, where he hunted with his dad and brother, played high school football and graduated from Alderwood High School in 1960. After graduation Steve joined the U.S. Navy, where he represented his country aboard the U.S.S. Stonewall Jackson as a submarine sonar operator. During his service Steve was selected as “Outstanding Navy Man of the Month” by his command, in Naples, Italy. He was released from active duty with a Good Conduct Medal for service ending in January 1965. Steve developed his successful insurance career for over 30 years in insurance sales with Mutual of Omaha and Bankers Life Insurance.
Steve was an active U.W. Husky football fan and enjoyed boating in Puget Sound, car racing, travel, fishing, gardening, cooking and entertaining family and friends at home.
Steve’s sense of humor, leadership and ability to inspire the best in others
will be missed.
Steve is loved and is survived by his wife, Elaine; son, Shane and fiancée, Janet Utterback; daughter, Erika; son, Mark and fiancée, Ann Blackburn, of Melbourne, Australia; son, Stephen; step-daughter, Amber Ryan; step-son, Eric Ryan; brother, Mike Peck and Adele Francis; sister, Marilyn VanBelle and husband, Archie VanBelle; sister, Nancy Solts; mother and father-in-law, Howard and Virginia Fordice; brother-in-law, Dan Fordice and wife, Kari Fordice; sister in law, Claudia Dennee and Steve Melroth; brother-in-law, Bob Fordice and wife, Kris Fordice; 15 nieces and nephews; and 11 grandnieces and nephews.
A memorial service celebrating Steve’s life will be held Thursday, Oct. 14, 2004, at 10:30 a.m. at First Free Methodist Church, 3200 3rd Avenue West, Seattle, WA, 98119. In remembrance, donations can be made to Children’s Hospital and Regional Medical Center Foundation Guild Association in Seattle.


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


