
Briefly
 
Date Published to Web: 6/3/2002

1-Column
Make-up days added to students’ class schedule
Alderwood School District students won't be released from their classrooms for summer vacation on Tuesday, June 8, as originally planned.
District spokesman Julie Kaplicky has announced that the last official day of school will instead be Thursday, June 10. She said two snow make-up days were added to the schedule in order to fulfill state requirements.
 
Athletic advisory council seekstwo new members
The Alderwood School District is currently accepting applications for two open positions on the Athletic/Activities Advisory Council. The purpose of the council is to review school district policy as it relates to athletics and activities at Alderwood High School and Harrison Middle School.
Council members are also responsible for recommending changes in policies to the school board. The council is entrusted with maintaining a balanced, effective set of codes that can be properly administered by school district officials.
Applications are currently available at the ASB office at the high school. They applications will be accepted through Friday, June 18. The current community representatives on the advisory council will review the applications and make a determination.
 
New law clarifies orchard disease, pest control burns
A new state law that goes into effect Thursday, June 10, will allow developers to burn orchards in urban growth areas to clear the land when the spread of disease or pests is a concern.
Burning is generally not allowed within urban growth boundaries unless related to farming activities. The new legislation clarifies when developers can burn orchard debris.
"The intent is to help streamline the process for landowners who need pest burning permits," said Sue Billings, an air quality manager for the Department of Ecology.
Additional information about the new law is available by calling the Dept. of Ecology burn team at (509) 575-2490.
 
Prosser/MabtonI-82 exit to be closed June 8-9
PROSSER - Westbound motorists on I-82 will be detoured next Tuesday and Wednesday, June 8-9, due to a repaving project at the exit 82 interchange.
Westbound traffic is advised to detour at exit 80 (Gap Road).
Eastbound traffic on SR-22, northbound traffic on SR-221 and Wine Country Road users who want to go west on I-82 should follow the detour, which will make them back-track eastbound on I-82 for six miles to exit 88 (Gibbon Road), where they can exit, cross over the freeway and then continue westbound on I-82.
Thursday and Friday, June 10-11, the eastbound ramps on I-82 at exit 82 will be closed as well for a repaving project.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


