
City works to create simple one-stop permit center
Story by: Jamie Smart
Date Published to Web: 1/8/2003
Obtaining a Alderwood city building permit will be a lot simpler in the coming months, if a one-stop proposal works as planned.   Builders and residents will be able to make one visit to city hall's planning department to request, pick-up and pay for building permits, claim city officials.   In addition, if the plan works as suggested, contractors and builders will be able to bring in plan reviews for examination and approval with minimum fuss.   "It's our intention to handle issues for the customers while they wait, rather than have them return in two weeks for their permits and approvals," Alderwood Planning and Community Development Director Pete Squires explained.   "It's our intention to have a single counter where all types of city permits and licenses will be available," he said.   With the exception of dog licenses, which will still be available at the city Law and Justice Center, residents will be able to request and pay for all permits and licenses, including special use permits, at the planning department office at city hall.   He said the plan has been moving slowly into place, but should be completed within the next two to three months.   "We are waiting on some computer software for a cash terminal to made the project complete," Squires explained.   Not only will residents and builders be able to request the necessary permits in one location, they won't have to travel all over city hall in order to pay for the permits, Squires explained.   "And, in most cases, customers will be able to have all their paperwork done the same day," Squires predicted.   Currently, a person seeking a building permit must go to the planning department, then the finance department to pay for the permit. The customer then has to bring the payment receipt back to the planning department before being given the necessary approval.   "It's been a complicated process that wastes the time of residents unnecessarily," Squires explained.   He said the one-stop permit counter transition is now moving into place. "We've already started to streamline the permitting process," he added.   "We want to make the process as community friendly as possible," Squires said.      . Jamie Smart can be contacted at   (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com   


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


