
Briefly in Entertainment
 
Date Published to Web: 7/9/2004

1-Column
Teens invitedto Granger dance
GRANGER - Teens 14 to 18 years of age are invited to a dance in Granger on Friday, July 9.
Music will be provided by Mid-Columbia Dance Productions. The 7 to 11 p.m. dance will be held at the Granger Lions Club building (109 East 'A' Street). Admission costs are $3 per person and $5 for couples.
All funds raised at the event will be used to benefit Granger's National Night Out Against Crime city-wide celebration in August.
Organizers encourage the teens to "leave their attitudes and colors behind" when attending the July 9 dance.
 
Sportsman's Day ‘show and shine’ set for Sept. 12
NACHES - With proceeds benefiting the Make-A-Wish Foundation, organizers of the annual Sportsman's Day celebration in Naches will hold a Show & Shine this year.
The hot rod and motorcycle show will be held Sunday, Sept. 12, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. at Naches Middle School. Registration will be from 9 to 11 a.m. that day.
The show is open to owners of motorcycles and automobiles of all makes and models. Door prizes, raffles, a poker walk, rides, vendors, bingo and concessions are all offered.
The judging of the entries will be held from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Participants can pre-register, at a cost of $15, by contacting Todd Slagle (509-673-3235). Same day registration will be $20.
 
Car showfund-raiserto benefitcancer survivor
ZILLAH - Lil Gibby's Fund in the Sun Car Show will be held at Zillah's Stewart Park Saturday, July 24.
Proceeds raised from the event will help a Mabton family that has incurred medical expenses for one of its youngsters that has been diagnosed with cancer.
The July 24 car show will feature three classes of competition—lowriders, imports and an open class. There is a $15 registration fee to compete.
Trophies will be awarded for first and second place finishers in each class, as well as for the best of show winner.
Organizers say live entertainment will be provided at the 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. show, as well as door prizes, concessions and a raffle.
 
Richland gallery features new show
RICHLAND - "The Spirit of Exploration: Celebrating June and Clark" is the title of a new exhibit at the Allied Arts Association Art Center and Gallery.
The juror of the show is Carol Poppenga, an artist living in Milton-Freewater and working at Whitman College in Walla Walla. She has a wide range of art, life and work experience that coincidentally includes wildlife painting and artifact drawing for archeological projects.
The works of the artists that were chosen for the special exhibit were selected on the basis of aesthetic merit, as well as reference to the theme of June and Clark.
The exhibit opened Tuesday, June 29, and runs through Aug. 13. The gallery is located at the entrance to Howard Amon Park, 89 Lee Blvd. in Richland.
 
Enumclaw hosts Highland games
ENUMCLAW - Competitive Highland dancing, individual piping and drumming, pipe bands, Scott athletic events, traditional Scottish foods—you will see and experience it all at the annual Pacific Northwest Scottish Highland Games & Clan Gathering.
This year's event will be held at the King County Fairgrounds in Enumclaw, the weekend of July 31-Aug. 1.
Organizers invite everyone to thrill to the bourdon of the bagpipes and the cadence of the drums as they witness first-hand a fine array of talented pipers and drummers competing before judges of worldwide renown.
Enumclaw's Highland games are the sixth oldest in the U.S. and the largest in Washington state.
The Saturday, July 31, schedule of events include an opening ceremony, the massing of the pipes and drums and parade of the clans, and a traditional Scottish party that is open to all.
Sunday, Aug. 1, a church service will be held, as well as a piobaireachd competition, a parade of the clans and a closing ceremony.
Admission costs each day are set at $10 for adults and $7 for children and senior citizens.
 
Hop Rod Brew Fest returns to Mabton area
MABTON - Puterbaugh Farms, located between Alderwood and Mabton, will again be the site of the Hop Rod Brew Festival.
This year's fest, as tradition dictates, will again feature beer and wine sampling, a hot rod show and shine, and hot food grilled by the Knights of Columbus. Children's activities will also be set up so families can attend.
A special treat at this year's fest, scheduled for Saturday, July 10, from 5 to 10 p.m., will be the guitar and vocal talents of Stan Fortier.
Admission costs will be $7 for adults and $3 for everyone under 21 years of age. All proceeds will benefit the Knights of Columbus Scholarship Fund.
Puterbaugh Farms is located on Green Valley Road, just off Midvale Road that runs south from Alderwood.
 
Lou Rawls to perform in Seattle in mid-July
SEATTLE - Lou Rawls will take the stage five times July 8-11 at Dimitriou's Jazz Alley in Seattle.
With a voice as distinctive and instantly rcognizable as any in music, Rawls will perform an 8 p.m. set on July 8, a pair of 8 and 10:15 p.m. sets on July 9-10, and two more 6:30 and 8:45 p.m. sets on July 11.
Rawls is currently touring to support his latest release, "Rawls Sings Sinatra."
Tickets, priced at about $30, are available by calling Dimitriou's Jazz Alley at (206) 441-9729.
 
‘Roar in Core’Labor Day weekend
COEUR D'ALENE, IDAHO - Motorcycle enthusiasts and rock-n-roll fans need to pencil in Labor Day weekend on their calendars.
"The Roar in Core" will be held Sept. 3-6 at the Kootenai County Fairgrounds in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho. The event will entail all aspects of the cycling lifestyle, including bike displays from all over the Pacific Northwest and Canada, interactive exhibits, vendors row, tattoo artists, custom bikes, poker runs and charity rides.
Organizers also promise top notch musical entertainment for rock-n-roll fans. Saturday, Sept. 4, on stage will be Shades of Purple, Jude Bowerman and The Fabulous Thunderbirds. Sunday, Sept. 5, No Quarter and Peter Frampton will entertain what is sure to be a capacity crowd.
The four-day event also offers on-site camping, a saloon and NASCAR simulators. The Roar in Core will be held the same weekend as Coeur d'Alene's Balloon Fest.
Tickets for The Roar in Core are available at any Tickets West location.
 
Hop industry highlighted at Yakima museum
YAKIMA - The traveling exhibit, "Brewer's Gold: a history of the hop industry in British Columbia," is set up for viewing at the Yakima Valley Museum, 2105 Tieton Drive in Yakima.
The exhibit explores the multi-faceted and often overlooked story of the hop industry. Using artifacts and photographs, the exhibit explores the industry's development, the principal growers, the "hop craze" of the 1890s and the diverse cultural and ethnic work force that included First Nations, Japanese and Mennonites, each with their own story to tell.
The exhibit officially opened June 2, and will remain at the Yakima Valley Museum through Oct. 1.
 
Maryhill summer concert series gets underway July 24
MARYHILL - The Maryhill Winery and Amphitheater, in conjunction with  the House of Blues Concerts, announces the 2004 Maryhill summer concert series. Scheduled to kick off the summer concert season at the Amphitheater overlooking the Columbia River, near the Dalles, Ore., will be the Temptations, Hootie and the Blowfish, and Don Henley.
Tickets go on sale Monday, June 7, at 10 a.m. Additional acts will be announced later.
The fabulous Temptations will be in concert at the winery  Saturday, July 24, at 7 p.m.
Performing for more than 40 years timeless hits and backed by a screaming band, the Temptations show is nothing less than a walk through American music history. Thanks to their fine-tuned choreography – and even finer harmonies – The Temptations became one of Motown’s most elastic acts. They handled both lushly-orchestrated pop and politically-charged funk with equal flair on such timeless hits as My Girl, Papa Was A Rolling Stone, Since I Lost My Baby, Ain’t Too Proud To Beg and Just My Imagination.
Tickets are $31.50 general admission, $46.50 reserved, and $100 dinner rail plus applicable service charges.
Coming to Maryhill Friday, July 30, will be Hootie and the Blowfish, at 8 p.m.
Hootie and the Blowfish's mainstream pop variation of blues-rock brought the band to the top of the charts. Cracked Rear View, the group’s first album, was released in the fall of 1994 and a single, Hold My Hand, worked its way into the Top Ten. Its success propelled the album to Number One, as well as launching a second hit, Let Her Cry, which was quickly followed by Only Wanna Be With You. Cracked Rear View became a full-blown music biz phenomenon—selling 13 million copies.
Tickets are $35 general admission, $45 reserved, and $100 dinner rail plus applicable service charges.
Out of all of the Eagles, Don Henley, who will be at Maryhill Friday, Aug. 6, at 8 p.m., has had the most successful solo career. The End of the Innocence was his most ambitious and commercially successful album, selling over three million copies and staying on the charts for nearly three years, launching the hit singles The End of the Innocence, Heart of the Matter, New York Minute, How Bad Do You Want It?, and The Last Worthless Evening.”
Tickets are $59.50 general admission, $79.50 reserved, and $125 dinner rail plus applicable service charges.
Tickets for these shows go on sale Monday, June 7, at 10 a.m. at all Ticketmaster outlets and on-line at ticketmaster.com.
For more information contact www.maryhillwinery.com or Jeff Gilbert at (425) 990-0222.
 
Train showchugs intoSeattle July 9-11
SEATTLE - The 15th annual National Train Show, the world's largest model train show, will be staged at Seattle's Seahawks Exhibition Center July 9-11.
The illustrious event is held in a different city and state each year.
The 2004 extravaganza will showcase all aspects of model railroading, including the industry's newest and most unique products and services from national manufacturers and retailers from the U.S. and around the world. The event will cover more than 165,000 square feet of space, including 35,000 square feet featuring extraordinary operating model train displays.
Show hours will be from 2 to 8 p.m. on Friday, July 9, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on July 10 and from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on July 11. Admission prices are $10 for adults, $9 for senior citizens and $5 for children 6 to 12 years of age. Children 5 and younger will be admitted free of charge.
 
Fireworks festival and concert setto be held in July
SPOKANE - The popular Royal Fireworks Festival & Concert returns to Spokane's Riverfront Park the last weekend of July.
The festival will again include classical baroque music, theatre, dance and pageantry.
Saturday, July 24, the evening headline event will be a 1749 revival of Shakespeare's The Tempest, capped off with fireworks. Sunday, July 25, the grand finale will be the Royal Fireworks Concert, as Allegro's Royal Band will take the stage and provide 18th century outdoor wind band music, concluding with dazzling fireworks choreographed to the music.
A crowd of more than 30,000 is expected for the festival performances.
Additional weekend performances are being scheduled and will be posted on Allegro's web site in June at: www.allegrobaroque.org.
The July 24-25 weekend festival is free to visitors.
 
‘Mame’ auditions set for Aug. 2, 3
Over The Hill Theatricals will hold tryouts for "Mame" Monday and Tuesday, Aug. 2 and 3, from 7 to 10 p.m. at Alderwood United Methodist Church
Tryouts for the musical are open to over age 45 amateur actors, who will present the play in mid-October at the Alderwood High School auditorium, according to Sheila Hazzard, who will direct the popular play
"We encourage men and women, ages 45 and older, to join us in presenting this entertaining play about a bigger than life woman and her adventures," said Hazzard.
The play will be produced by Donna Sartin.
For more information about the tryouts or Over the Hill membership, call 837-3157, 882-2919 or 786-3990.
 
Yakima Folklife Festival bigger, better than ever
YAKIMA - More than 100 music and dance performances at 13 venues highlights this year's Yakima Folklife Festival.
The three-day extravaganza is set for Friday, Saturday and Sunday—July 9-11.
The main thrust of activities will once again take place at Yakima Valley Museum and Franklin Park. Besides dance and music, there will be plenty of kids activities, a medieval faire, crafts and food booths.
The Saturday, July 10, park entertainment kicks off at 11:30 a.m. Between the nearby museum and the park, six stages will be set up, all featuring folklife musicians. Non-stop entertainment will be presented until about 8 p.m. that evening.
For those who want to continue the fun, a contradance will be held at the Broadway Grange Hall (Washington and 11th avenues) Saturday night, from 7 to 10 p.m. Organizers say there will be line and square dancing to a live string band, and instruction will be provided for beginners.
The fun starts all over again Sunday, July 11, at Franklin Park, with more musical groups performing from 11 a.m. until 8 p.m.
For those who want to get an early start at this year's festival, six Yakima eateries and pubs will host live music Friday evening, July 9. The sites include Grant's Brewpub, The Depot, Bob's Keg & Cork, Barrel House, Greystone and Essencia Bakery.
 
Moses Lake offers free concert series
MOSES LAKE - Centennial Theatre, located on the lakefront in downtown Moses Lake, will again be home to that city's free summer concert series.
Organizers say they have booked another exceptional season with a variety of talent and genres.
This year's line-up includes The Mills Brothers on Saturday, July 17; The Rangers on Saturday, July 24; Cornell Gunter's Coasters on Saturday, July 31; Misty River on Saturday, Aug. 7; Lavay Wells & Her Red Hot Skillet Lickers on Saturday, Aug. 14; Al Stewart on Saturday, Aug. 28; and BeatleMania Live on Saturday, Sept. 4.
Admission to all the concerts is free. The venue features casual grass bowl seating at an award winning amphitheater. Entrance to the theater will be on a first-come, first-serve basis.
 
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


