
Forum
 
Date Published to Web: 3/3/2002

1-Column
Vote YES on library annexation
I am writing this letter to express my thoughts about the Alderwood library. We live in the county, so I can't vote on this. If I could, I would vote yes to annex with the Yakima Regional Library.
I go to the Alderwood library on a regular basis, and I love to go. The staff members are very nice. It is a great joy to go to the Alderwood library.
It would sadden me greatly if it closed!
According to the information I have read, people who live in the county have been paying the library levy rate since 2003. I can't remember voting on it. If we who live in the county have been paying (I am happy to pay to have the library), why haven't the people in the city been paying?
I urge the people in the city of Alderwood to vote a huge YES.
Linda L. Williams, Alderwood
 
Library important
There are many reasons why the library is important to me. There are almost as many reasons as there are books in the library.
One reason is that they have lots of books on different topics. There are books on animals, fairy tales, people and history.
Another reason is their summer reading program. In this program you get little prizes like bookmarks, fun bags and stickers.
Finally, they don't just have books. They have videos and books on tape.
Hence, I think the library is important to me because they have lots of books, a good summer reading program and lots more.
/s/ Marielle Abbott, Chief Kamiakin Elementary School fifth grader, Alderwood
 
Security liaison will be missed
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr. Fidel Partida, security liaison for the Alderwood School District, for his outstanding commitment to the safety and welfare of the students, staff and parents at Harrison Middle School.
Mr. Partida has been instrumental in curbing gang activity, violence and drugs at Harrison Middle School. He is one of Alderwood's finest role models for our youths.
Recently, Mr. Partida was transferred to Outlook Elementary School. I know Mr. Partida will be an asset to the Outlook community and will be instrumental in curtailing the growing concerns of gang activity in Outlook.
Mr. Partida, your presence will truly be missed by students, staff and parents at Harrison Middle School. Outlook, you are gaining one of our finest!
/s/ Cheryl Engel, Harrison Middle School teacher, Alderwood
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


