


New city pool idea resurfaces in Grandview


Story by: Jamie Smart


Date Published to Web: 5/25/2003


GRANDVIEW - Plans to tour regional swim centers were approved during the Grandview Parks and Recreation Service Area Board meeting held Monday night.
   Pools in Quincy, Moses Lake and Ephrata will be inspected by the seven-member board beginning Monday, June 14.
   The board, which is in the final phases of putting together a swimming pool needs survey, also plans to examine the aquatic centers in the Oregon cities of Milton Freewater, Hermiston and Pendleton in mid-June.
   The tours of the regional water recreation centers is part of an effort by the Grandview parks board to learn more about the components which make the centers popular with the public, explained Mike Carpenter, director of Grandview Recreation and Park Services.
   Four years ago, the City of Grandview had sought to replace the 55-year-old Grandview pool, but the public vote failed, said Carpenter.
   "We are now hoping to gather as much data as possible to inform the public of the need to replace the center and improve its services," Carpenter explained.
   He said the board hopes to create a proposal which best reflects the community needs.
   Four years ago, the aquatic center project, projected to cost $5.9 million, called for a 25-meter competitive eight-lane area, a zero depth pool, play water features, indoor and outdoor spas, as well as two water slides. At that time, other amenities being considered included sand volleyball pits, re-covering of the city tennis courts, additional parking space and an indoor lap pool, Carpenter explained.
   "We will be asking the citizens to prioritize what their wishes are for the new city pool proposal," he said.
   The survey is expected to be distributed in late June.
   In the meantime, the service board members, led by Board Chair Dave Copeland, will be visiting with Grandview businesses and service clubs to explain the issues surrounding the need for a new city pool.
   The Grandview pool was last renovated in 1983, said Carpenter.
   He said the pool currently serves an average of 500 swimmers per day during the summer for swim lessons, swim team competitions and open and family swim times.
   






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





