


Grandview City Council Briefs


 


Date Published to Web: 10/7/2004




1-Column


Council opts to leave damaged intersection as four-way stop


GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Grandview City Council voted to leave the damaged intersection at Grandridge Road and West Second Street as a four-way stop, for now.


The intersection was damaged two weeks ago when a semi-truck hit one of the overhead wires and a fire hydrant, bringing down several service poles and the stop lights they supported.


Council opted to leave the intersection as a four-way stop while the city pursues emergency funding through the Transportation Improvement Board. The funding would make it possible for the city to upgrade the intersection to include a steel pole signal system with mast arms, pedestrian signals and a new turn radius that would make it easier for semi-trucks to make it through the intersection. The estimated cost of the upgrade is $262,000.


 


Council approves final plat for phase three of new subdivision


GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Grandview City Council approved the final plat for Vista Villas phase three. The new subdivision is located off of Highland Road in Grandview.


The approval of the final plat means that developer Mike Johnson will be able to begin selling lots.


 


Council approves minimizing fence permit fee


GRANDVIEW - Grandview City Council members voted Monday night to minimize the fee to obtain a building permit for a fence.


Previously the total fee included a $20 permit issuance fee, a $38 permit fee and a $4.50 state fee, making the total fee for a fence permit $62.50. Council voted to eliminate the $20 issuance fee, therefore bringing down the total to $42.50.


 


Council sets first budget hearing


GRANDVIEW - Grandview City Council will take its first look at the 2005 budget later this month.


Monday night, Grandview City Council members set Oct. 18 as the date for their first budget meeting. The meeting will begin at 6 p.m. and take the place of the regular study session.


 


City approves annexation request


GRANDVIEW - Grandview City Council voted to approve an annexation and rezone request made by Everett and Betty Adamson, Everett and Stephanie Adamson and Chuck and Kim Stegeman.


All of the property involved in the annexation is located on Pleasant Avenue in Grandview, just outside the current city limits.


The group petitioning for annexation is also asking that their property, which is all zoned residential through Alderwood County, be rezoned single family residential by the city.


The annexation request will now go to the Grandview Planning Commission for a public hearing.


 


 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





