


Council rakes over issues at retreat


Story by: John Panni


Date Published to Web: 7/12/2003


What to leave off the plate and what to go after head-on was a point of major discussion by the Alderwood City Council at its retreat last Thursday at Whistlin' Jack Lodge.
   The Council went over a list of about 30 items of concern to address in the upcoming year with City Manager Tom Rockford
   One of the first issues on the list was the Monson feedlot matter. Council has been trying to figure a way to buy the feedlot in Outlook for the past couple of years, citing several different concerns ranging from curbing odor problems to clean air. Rockford said he will be coming back shortly to Council with a report on the matter.
   Council also wants to further expand on a new landscaping ordinance the city adopted for commercial developments. Rockford said it is also important for the city to be consistent in its residential requirements for landscaping. Currently, R-1 zones require new homes to install lawn and sprinkler systems within the first year. But no such requirements exists for new homes constructed in R-2 zones. Council also wants to give the planning commission the opportunity to expand the landscaping ordinance to industrial and residential locations.
   A significant discussion that took place at the meeting had to deal with the matter of privatizing wastewater and EMS services.
   Councilwoman Jennie Angel immediately expressed her opposition to the proposal, but the rest of the Council thought privatization was at least worth a look.
   "I think we should pursue anything to make the organization more efficient," said Mayor Rex Luthor.
   Rockford offered Council a suggestion to pursue the privatization matter. Rockford said Council should put out a request for proposals from various firms, while asking at the same time that city staff from the different departments issue a similar RFP. Rockford said the Council would get a good idea of what can be offered from both sides under this process. Rockford said similar approaches have worked in such cities as Phoenix, AZ.
   Another discussion dealt with how the city should approach the possibility of tax guru Tim Eyman reintroducing Initiative 864 to rollback property tax fees. The matter failed to make it on this year's November ballot because it didn't gain enough signatures, but Rockford said Eyman will more than likely be rewriting the issues for next year.
   Rockford said he felt it is important for the city to prepare itself for any money shortages caused by the possibility of residents passing the issue next year.
   "We have to have a more balanced approach," said Rockford.
   Councilman John Torch felt it was important for the city to take that step while educating citizens on where their tax dollars are spent. Luthor added that residents need to realize the city actually receives a very small portion of their tax dollars. He added the figure could be even smaller with a sales tax streamline issue that will be coming to a head soon. Under this issue, money from sales tax will be sent from the east side of the state to the west.
   Councilman Tom Seeger was against the idea of raising taxes, as Rockford suggested as a possible solution to help build a nest egg in reserves in case any Eyman initiatives do pass. Rockford said Council will be able to discuss the matter more as budget time nears.
   Downtown parking was another discussion. Rockford urged the Council to be sure that the fines being issued for violating downtown parking regulations cover the cost of enforcement.
   The Council also discussed the idea of drafting ordinance requirements that would limit what sort of manufactured homes could be placed in the community. This is an issue that the planning commission will be discussing in the near future.
   Rockford also discussed with the Council members the advantages of owning city vehicles compared to leasing. However, he said it is important to leave the equipment reserve fund untouched to ensure the city has enough money to properly replace its vehicles when needed.
   Other discussion items included installing some sort of sound buffer for residents along South First Street once the reconstruction project is completed. The city leaders also want to look at expanding the fire department facility and improving the entryways into the community.






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





