
Forum
 
Date Published to Web: 1/28/2003

1-Column
Spray paint sales
I, like so many others in Alderwood, have been concerned about the numerous incidents of graffiti, both in town and in the county areas. Because of this concern I share a recent incident.
I was in line at a large retail chain store located here in Alderwood, waiting to pay for my purchases. Ahead of me were five or six teenage boys who must have had 20 to 25 cans of spray paint. As I watched them purchase this spray paint I was surprised that no questions of ID or age were asked by the clerk. (I thought you had to be over 18 to buy spray paint.)
I was next in line and I asked the clerk if you have to show ID to purchase spray paint, and she said no. Then, much to my surprise, because one of the items I was buying was a box of Advil cold medicine I was asked to show the clerk my driver's license, and I am well over 18!
I guess the moral of the story is...if you are sick be prepared to show ID at this store, but you can buy all the spray paint you want, no questions asked.
Perhaps the Alderwood City Council and Tom Seeger could talk to that particular chain store's manager and get them to stop selling spray paint to minors. If they do have that policy, then they need their checkout clerks to enforce it, not overlook it.
/s/ Katie Martin, Alderwood
 
Vote yes Feb. 3
I am writing to ask everybody to vote YES for both the Alderwood school bond and special levy on Feb. 3.
Check out the financial information provided in the school district's latest newsletter, in former Superintendent Mac Chambers' letter to the Alderwood Daily News and in the support committee's flyer. The figures make sense.
The Alderwood School District boards of education have a history of looking ahead to make sure that proper and sufficient housing is provided for students. I think this bond and levy is another positive step in that direction.
So please, vote on Feb. 3 and vote YES for the bond and YES for the special levy.
/s/ Martha Stewart, Alderwood
 
Vote yes twice
Before long the patrons of the Alderwood School District will have the opportunity to vote on a special levy and a building bond issue in support of quality schools.
For many years we never had the opportunity to vote for a levy. The only that was submitted to voters in the district was a bond to build new buildings. The absence of a levy, although keeping our taxes at a minimum, meant that other people in the state were doing at least as much as we were to fund our school system. Now, with the increased demands placed on education with the President's Leave No Child Behind concept and the somewhat infamous WASL, we need to pay special attention to our specific needs with increased enrollments leading the way.
We live in a time of state matching funds, levy equalization monies and other financial advantages that play a big role in helping us determine the special value of levies for programs and bonds for buildings. The only way to qualify for these additional monies is to pass a levy and a bond.
In proposing the levy, the school district has gone out of its way to keep taxes at a minimum. In fact, Alderwood is one of the lowest taxed districts in the state. With the past levy and bond we have gotten a considerable bang for our buck.
Approving the new opportunity before us will increase our tax levels only slightly and will assure the construction of at least one new facility for our expanding populations, and maintain certain programs that are of value to our students and to the quality way of life we enjoy in our fair community.
We have the opportunity to bring at least 40 million new dollars into our district by voting yes twice. Please, vote YES for the levy and YES for the bond. Do it for the kids.
/s/ Jim Galbraith, Alderwood
 
Tort reform
It is clear Washington state's medical liability system is broken. The recent news that emergency room doctors and hospitals across the state have lost their malpractice insurance are just more examples. Jackpot jury awards and settlements are making medical liability insurance either unaffordable or completely unavailable. Ultimately, this hurts patients. All patients.
For many physicians, even those without complaints against them, skyrocketing medical liability insurance premiums are forcing them to limit high risk services, move out of state or close completely. If this continues patients will have much less access to delivery rooms, operating rooms and doctors' offices, along with limited access to specialists in emergency rooms.
Tort reform is essential if we want people in this state to have continued access to quality health care. Limiting medical malpractice awards is good public policy that puts more money in the hands of the injured patients, instead of in the hands of personal injury lawyers.
Doctors and patients should contact their legislators and urge them to pass meaningful tort reform, including a cap on non-economic damages, before physicians can no longer afford to provide essential medical treatments.
/s/ Dennis & Darla Williams, Port Orchard
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


