
Entertainment Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 1/16/2003

1-Column
Public reception scheduled for Northwest artists
RICHLAND - A public reception is scheduled for Sunday, Feb. 8, at Richland's Allied Arts Gallery to honor three Pacific Northwest artists whose artwork will be on display throughout the month of February.
The 1 to 3 p.m. reception will give art lovers the opportunity to meet artists Judith Loomis of Richland, Mary Dryburgh of Richland and Greg Wilbur of Portland, Ore. All three artists will have their work on display at the Richland gallery from Feb. 3 to Feb. 27.
Loomis' mixed media works represent the nuclear age of Hanford, showing her feelings about Hanford from her artistic viewpoint.
Dryburgh's artwork utilizes totemic images that come from the darkest recesses of consciousness. Her drawings are populated with running dogs and inky forests, as well as black crows.
Wilbur, an internationally known artist from Portland, will present his metal works at the gallery. Allied Arts Gallery officials say Wilbur's elegant simplicity of his recent Asian-inspired sculptures brings a harmony to the February show to balance the mood of darkness implied in both the works of Loomis and Dryburgh.
The Richland gallery is located at the entrance of Howard Amon Park in Richland (89 Lee Blvd.).
 
Sweet Adelines' ‘Laugh-in, Sing-out’ coming to Alderwood
The Rolling Hill Chorus of Sweet Adelines will present "Laugh-in, Sing-out" Friday, Jan. 30, at the Alderwood High School auditorium at 7:30 p.m.
The barbershop-style singers will be joined by the Peanut Butter Conspiracy, an internationally known comedy barbershop quartet.
Tickets will be available at the door at the cost of $10 for adults, $8 for seniors and youths. Also available is a special $25 family ticket.
Two more performances are planned at Richland's Chief Joseph's Middle School Saturday, Jan. 31, at 2:30 p.m. and 7:30 p.m.
For more information call Jean Eakin at 882-3335 or (509) 943-ARTS (2787).
 
Dinosaurs returnto science museum
PORTLAND, ORE. - Was T. rex a scavenger? Or a murdering predator?
Special guest Dr. Jack Horner, curator of paleontology at the Museum of the Rockies and technical advisor for Steven Spielberg's "Jurassic Park" films, will be at the Oregon Museum of Science & Industry on Tuesday, Jan. 27, to offer his conclusions on the scavenger vs. predator theory.
The exciting, new exhibit, " T. rex on Trial," features the suspect T. rex, a triceratops victim and seven other animatronic dinosaur "witnesses." Full-size dino skeletons and rare fossils, along with hands-on activity stations, will help visitors analyze the data and reach a verdict.
Tickets are priced at $10 for the general public (503-797-4661), and includes admittance to Horner's evening lecture on Jan. 27.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


