
Entertainment Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 3/5/2002

1-Column
Renowned doctor to speak about healing March 26
YAKIMA - A message of hope and healing from renowned author and physician Dr. Bernie Siegel will be presented at the Yakima Capitol Theatre Friday, March 26.
Siegel's 7 p.m. presentation, "The Art of Healing," has been described as dynamic, positive and upbeat. His talk is designed to inspire listeners, as well as help them reflect on living life more fully, no matter what the challenges are.
Tickets are priced at $10 and are currently available at the Capitol Theatre box office. Proceeds from ticket sales will benefit cancer patients in Yakima.
As a physician who has cared for and counseled thousands of people with life-threatening illnesses, Siegel embraces a philosophy of living, and dying, that stands at what some describe the forefront of medicine. He is a best selling author of six books.
 
Spilyay Indian Market returnsto Legends Casino
TOPPENISH - The 40th annual Spilyay Indian Market returns to Toppenish's Legends Casino Saturday and Sunday, March 13-14. The doors to the public will open at 10 a.m.
The public is encouraged to view a unique showcase of American Indian arts and crafts. Many of the items will be offered for sale.
The Native American fair will include an Indian baby and toddler fashion show on Saturday, at 1:30 p.m. The "Beloved Children" dancers of White Swan will perform that day at 3 and 5 p.m. Art awards will be presented at 7 p.m. Saturday evening, with the fair closing at 8 p.m.
Sunday's program will begin with a prayer song at 10:15 a.m. At 12:30 p.m. that day, Rocco Clark's Indian dancers will perform, to be followed by a hand drum contest. Doors to the fair will close at 4 p.m.
 
‘Heartstrings’back in concert Sunday, March 14
GRANDVIEW - The Lower Alderwood Valley Gospel singing group "Heartstrings" is back in concert Sunday, March 14, at the Grandview Christian Church.
All Lower Valley residents are invited to attend the 6 p.m. concert at the church, located at 310 Euclid Ave. A recently released CD, as well as cassettes, will be on sale that evening, as well.
 
Kids’ chess setsto be displayedat G’dale museum
GOLDENDALE - A special opening reception will be held Saturday, March 20, for the young artists who created chess sets that will be displayed at the Maryhill Museum through the first of July.
From March 15 through July 4, the Goldendale area museum will exhibit chess sets created by children from Washington and Oregon.
The March 20 reception, scheduled for 1 to 5 p.m., will include opportunities to learn how to play chess, as well as a live performance by the Goldendale High School jazz band.
Teams of students joined forces to create some of the chess sets, while others show the unmistakable hand of an individual.
"World cultures and individuals from such diverse art movements as Dada, Surealism and Bauhaus Internationalism have interpreted chess pieces according to their aesthetic concepts," said Courtney Spousta, curator of educational exhibits at the museum. "These students are helping to keep the tradition going."
Maryhill Museum, a castle-like mansion overlooking the Columbia River, is open 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily. The Maryhill Cafe offers beverages, deli food and desserts to visitors. General admission prices to the museum are $7 for adults, $6 for senior citizens and $2 for children.
 
Yakima Family Theatre Series presents ‘Matilda’ in sign language next Thursday 
YAKIMA - The Allied Arts Council of Yakima Valley will present the Cleveland Signstage Theater's production of Matilda Thursday, March 11, at the Allied Arts Center, 5000 W. Lincoln Ave., Yakima.
Tickets for the 7 p.m. performance are $10 for adults and $8 for children and senior citizens.
Season tickets are available at the cost of $27 for adults and $21 for children and seniors.  
The play, presented in both English and American sign language, is the first of the Allied Arts Council's 21st annual Family Theater Series.  
 Two additional productions in the Family Theater Series are the ArtsPowers National Touring Theater's Anne of Green Gables  on April 6, and the Missoula Children's Theatre's The Frog Prince  on May 22.
Auditions for the Missoula Theatre production for youngsters, ages 5-18, will be held Monday, May 17, at 4 p.m. at the Yakima Allied Arts Center. Performance times will be at 3 and 7 p.m.
Family Theatre Series tickets are on sale at the Allied Arts Council office by calling (509) 966-0930.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


