
Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 6/21/2004

1-Column
S’side High has report cards, diplomas available
2004 graduates of Alderwood High School can pick up their diplomas at the school now, between 8 a.m. and noon and 1 and 3 p.m. Mondays through Fridays.
The end of school year report cards are also available to be picked up by local prep students.
 
Driver’s license law changes
As of a week and a half ago, the state has introduced changes that may allow individuals to drive under certain circumstances when their license is suspended.
A new type of license, called an occupational/restricted license, replaces the occupational driver's license that allowed an individual to drive to and from work while serving the terms of a driver's license suspension or revocation.
The new law makes more drivers eligible to drive while their license is suspended. The occupational/restricted licenses will be issued for the following uses:
• to drive to and from an individual's place of employment;
• for an occupation or trade that makes it essential to operation a motor vehicle;
• to undergo continuing health care;
• to attend an educational institution or course of study that leads to a diploma, degree or other certification;
• to undergo substance abuse treatment or for participation in 12-step group meetings;
• for an apprenticeship, Work First, on-the-job training or welfare to work program; and
• to provide continuing care for another who is dependent upon the applicant.
The new law also increases the fee for obtaining this type of restricted driving privilege, from $25 to $100.
 
American Legion Auxiliary installs 2004-05 officers
Alderwood Unit #73 of the American Legion Auxiliary installed its 2004-05 officers at its June meeting.
The newly installed officers include Lila Furukawa as president, Joyce Taylor as first vice president, Pat Maynard as second vice president, Beverly Ice as secretary, Dorothy Schaneman as treasurer, Barbara Atherton as chaplain, Floy Hansen as sergeant-at-arms and Terry Morrow as historian.
As the president, Furukawa will be the unit's delegate at the Department of Washington American Legion Auxiliary state convention, to be held July 12-17 in Bellevue.
The Auxiliary's primary project of offering poppies to the public was completed in May. Procceds from the poppy sales benefit veterans who are hospitalized. This year's poppy days chairman was Maynard.
 
Playground program taking registrations
GRANDVIEW - The Grandview Parks and Recreation Department is now accepting registrations on a first-come, first-serve basis for its summer playground program.
The day camp is open to boys and girls ages 6 to 12. Due to limited space and resources, the program is open only to the first 50 youths who register. Mail-in registration will not be accepted.
The program begins Wednesday, July 7, and lasts until Friday, Aug. 13. It is held Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. The day camp will be held at Eastside Park on Mondays and Wednesdays, and at Westside Park on Fridays. A free lunch will be provided thanks to the Grandview School District's summer food service program.
The registration fee is set at $25 for Grandview youngsters, $37.50 for those youths who reside outside the city limits.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


