


Grandview City Council Briefs


 


Date Published to Web: 11/5/2004




1-Column


Estrada recognized as Youth of the Month


GRANDVIEW - Monday night, the Grandview City Council recognized Jaime Estrada as the recipient of the November Mayor's Youth of the Month award.


Estrada is a senior at Compass High School. He was nominated for the award by Crystal Felman, a counselor at the school. Felman said Estrada maintains a positive attitude and is honest, noting that he found a money order written for a large sum of money in the Westside Market parking lot and turned the money order into the staff at the school.


 


Council approves property tax levy for 2005


GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Grandview City Council members approved the property tax levy for 2005, identifying $1.1 million of expected revenue for next year.


City Treasurer John Myers explained that every year the city has to levy property taxes so the Alderwood County treasurer can assess them. He noted that the property taxes levied by the city in 2005 will see a 1 percent increase over this year. In 2004, Grandview levied $987,029 in property taxes. The 1 percent increase will mean an additional $9,870 of revenue for the city. The remaining $104,000, which makes up the difference between the amount levied in 2004 and the amount to be levied in 2005, comes from new construction in Grandview.


 


G'view Council approves specifications for well project


GRANDVIEW - The Grandview City Council voted to approve specifications for the bid process involved with the creation of new well #4.
  


The project includes the decommissioning of the original well, as well as the drilling, casing and testing of the new well. It also includes the construction of a new pump house for well #4.


 


Council pushes forward with charitable solicitations ordinance


GRANDVIEW - Monday night, the Grandview City Council gave its nod to City Administrator Jim Sewell and City Attorney Jack Maxwell on the subject of charitable solicitations.


Sewell noted that several months ago members of Grandview's banking community brought a concern to Council regarding charitable solicitors standing outside of their facilities. He noted that they were standing on public right-of-way, blocking the sidewalk as they asked for donations.


Sewell said the city took a look at a solicitations ordinance in place in Alderwood and were working to adapt it to fit the community of Grandview.


The ordinance would require charitable groups to register with the city in order to be able to solicit donations on public right-of-ways.


Mayor Mike Bren noted that when the groups register the ordinance should be written so the charitable organizations have to provide proof of their 501(c)3 status.


Bren suggested that Council take another look at the proposed ordinance after the first of the year.


 


Council approves amendment to correct sewer rates


GRANDVIEW - Grandview City Council members voted to approve an amendment to the resolution originally passed in May 2004, which set sewer rates for residential and public users within the city during the irrigation season.


City Clerk Anita Posse noted that after the resolution was originally approved she inadvertently inputted the wrong rate schedule into the computer. The amendment corrects the rate change.


 


G'view city officials discuss fate of motorized scooters


GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Grandview Police Chief Dave Charvet told Council members that he has been discussing the proposed motorized scooter ordinance with his staff, noting that he knows the Council wants Grandview to be a scooter friendly community.


However, he explained that looking at what other communities are doing, including total scooter bans and banning the vehicles in the downtown corridor, he doesn't know if being scooter friendly is something that is going to be possible.


Charvet suggested Council hold off on implementing a motorized scooter ordinance, until it sees what the results are of the newly adopted ordinances in other surrounding communities.


"Let's see what the impact is," Charvet said.


Council agreed to put off making any decision on motorized scooters until more information is known.


 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





