
Legislative honors afforded Honeyford
 
Date Published to Web: 10/28/2004
Washington State Sen. Jim Honeyford, a Republican from Alderwood, recently received two individual honors for his legislative efforts.   The Washington Association of Vocational Administrators (WAVA) selected the 15th District lawmaker as its 2004 Legislator of the Year. The Washington State Farm Bureau also presented Honeyford with a certificate of commendation.   Honeyford received the WAVA award at its fall conference in Pasco on Wednesday, Oct. 20.   "We appreciate Sen. Honeyford's support for the state's career and technical education system," said WAVA President Dennis Wallace. "He has worked diligently for our concerns over the years and is an excellent spokesman for our programs. For people who are interested in career and technical education, Sen. Honeyford has always had an open door and has been willing to listen and discuss issues. He has always been a friend of career and technical education and he is very deserving of this award."   "Our vocational and technical colleges help produce skilled workers in many important areas of Washington's economy," said Honeyford, a former educator. "They play an important and valuable role in both our economy and education system."   In a letter sent to Honeyford about the state farm bureau's certificate of commendation, Dan Wood, the farm bureau's director of government relations wrote: "This commendation is not based on voting record alone. It is awarded only to those few legislators who went above and beyond, demonstrating leadership on key bills and negotiations vital to our members."   "Agriculture has been and will always be a key part of my legislative district's economy and way of life," Honeyford said. "Agriculture also continues to be one of the key industries in Washington's economy. As a fruit grower, I understand the needs and concerns of farmers and growers both in my region and throughout our state."


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


