
Obituaries
 
Date Published to Web: 3/8/2004

CLEVELAND LEE MITCHELL
CLEVELAND LEE MITCHELL
Cleveland Lee “Cleve” Mitchell, 73, long-time Yakima Valley resident, died Friday, March 5, 2004, at Parkside Care Center in Union Gap.
He was born Oct. 22, 1930 in Lubbock, Texas, the son of Sadie (Cates) and Donald Mitchell. He worked in the oil fields and was a beekeeper, pig farmer, carpenter and owner of a dairy farm, and managed Sun Rise Resort in Copalis Beach.
He is survived by his children, Rod Mitchell (Karen) of Yakima, Brenda Shelton of Selah, Karen Hatch of McMinnville, Ore., Tim Mitchell of Wapato and Barbara Mason (Loffer) of Cornelius, Ore.; 13 grandchildren; 10 great-grandchildren; five siblings, Jeanie Dalrymple (John) of Yakima, Clarence Riggins of Parker, Jean Alexander of Alderwood, Mary Philip (Gil) of California and Martha Wells of Texas; and one uncle, Bruce Cates of Baja, Calif.
He was preceded in death by his parents; his wife, Barbara; one daughter, Nelda; and one grandson, Mathew Differding.
Viewing and visitation will be held Monday, March 8, 2004, from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., and Tuesday, March 9, 2004, from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m., at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Graveside funeral services will be held March 9, 2004, at 2 p.m. at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens in Alderwood.
 
ANTONIO URRUTIA
Antonio “Tony” Urrutia, 68, of Alderwood passed away Friday, March 5, 2004, at his home in Alderwood.
He was born Feb. 13, 1936 to Macedonio and Benita (Rodriguez) Urrutia in Maxwell, Texas. He received his education in Alderwood, graduating with the class of 1954. On March 2, 1957 he married Frances Padilla in Alderwood. Following their marriage they moved to Seattle, where Tony worked for Boeing for one year. Later moving to Alderwood, Tony worked construction on various dams on the Columbia River and he worked for a short time at Hanford. He also worked for Mountain States Construction for several years. Tony owned a cherry orchard on Heffron Road and a 20-acre farm on Snipes Pump Road, where he farmed various produce over the years and Concord grapes.
He was a member of St. Joseph Catholic Church, Yakima Carpenters Local Union, Church Advisory Board, Hospital Board and Cemetery Board.
Tony cherished spending time with his family, camping and going to the beach, watching them participate in various school activities, supporting them in all their endeavors, especially basketball. He also took special pride watching his son and son-in-law coach basketball and football. His latest joy was seeing his granddaughter, Stephanie, coach at the college level.
He is survived by his wife of 47 years, Frances Urrutia of Alderwood; one son, Steve Urrutia and wife, Julie, of Alderwood; two daughters, Nora Urrutia of Outlook and MaryAnn Potter and husband, Ken, of Portland, Ore.; six grandchildren, Anthony Wells, Stephanie Urrutia, Jenna Urrutia, Kerri Urrutia, Samantha Potter and Tyler Potter; and twin great-grandchildren, Emily Wells and Anthony Wells II. He is also survived by four brothers, John Urrutia, Art Urrutia, both of Seattle, Mac Urrutia of Richland and Bence Urrutia of Auburn; and five sisters, Alice Maltos of Granger, Theresa Martinez, Mary Cruz, Lupe Gutierrez and Eva Martinez, all of Grandview.
He was preceded in death by his parents; and one infant sister, Isabel.
Viewing and visitation will be held Monday, March 8, 2004, from 4 to 8 p.m. with a Rosary to be held at 6 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Tuesday, March 9, 2004, at 10 a.m. at St. Joseph Catholic Church, Alderwood, with burial to follow at Alderwood Cemetery, under the direction of Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. In lieu of flowers, those wishing to honor Tony’s memory may contribute to St. Joseph Catholic Church.


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


