
Central Washington State fair lineup is a 'carnaval' of entertainment
Story by: Mel Sacher
Date Published to Web: 9/3/2004

1-Column
YAKIMA - For 10 days the fun and entertainment of New Orleans will be returning to Yakima for "Deux Carnaval!, the fun continues" at the Central Washington State Fair, which is slated for Sept. 24 through Oct. 3.
This year's fair has a hours of entertainment for the entire family ranging from the Royal Hanneford Circus under the big top to headlining entertainment on the Oak Park Stage and rodeo action in the Budweiser Grandstand.
The Royal Hanneford Circus, returning to Yakima for the second time, will be performing three shows a day for all 10 days of the fair.
One of the world's oldest circuses, with roots dating back to the 1690s, the circus was a popular stop for fairgoers and their youngsters last year.
The circus is free with admission.
Kicking off the entertainment on the Oak Park Stage this year will be country music favorites the Bellamy Brothers. The duo, who will be performing Friday, Sept. 24, at 7:30 p.m., are best know for country hits such as "If I Said You Have a Beautiful Body, Would You Hold it Against Me," and pop hit "Let Your Love Flow."
Popular musical comedian "Weird Al" Yankovic will be returning to the fair after an eight year lapse Saturday, Sept. 25, at 7:30 p.m. Yankovic will be performing his latest musical parodies, as well as some old favorites.
Mama Mia's Bjorn Again will take the stage Sunday, Sept. 26, at 4 p.m. The singers, look, sound and dress like the Swedish singing sensation ABBA.
Tuesday, Sept. 28, the country music hits "Man to Man" and "The One" will be belted out by up and coming musician Gary Allan. He will be performing at 7:30 p.m.
Also returning to the fair will be top female rocker Joan Jett, along with band the Blackhearts. Best known for her hit "I Love Rock n' Roll," Jett will be performing at 7:30 p.m., Friday, Oct. 1.
Creative prop comedian Carrot Top will be entertaining audiences on the Oak Park Stage Saturday, Oct. 2, at 7:30 p.m.
Rounding out the entertainment at the fair will be Hispanic singer Yolanda del Rio. She will be performing Sunday, Oct. 3, at 4 p.m.
At the Budweiser Grandstand, Friday and Saturday, Sept. 24 and 25, will be the Northern Sprint Tour Car Races. The races will begin at 7 p.m.
Sunday, Sept. 26, at 2 p.m. the Spanish rodeo will take the grandstand.
Wednesday and Thursday, Sept. 29 and 30, will be two days of PRCA Rodeo action. The PRCA Bull-O-Rama will be Friday, Oct. 1, at 7 p.m.
The closing entertainment for the Budweiser Grandstand will be two days of demolition derby action, Saturday, Oct. 2, at 7 p.m. Sunday, Oct. 3, at 2 p.m.
Also as a part of the entertainment will be nightly parades through the fairgrounds, which will begin at 6 p.m. The Great American Duck Races will also be part of the entertainment, as will Nancy Kobert's Amazing World of Birds show, which will have daily performances on the Pepsi Stage. For those wanting a more hands-on experience there's Brad's World of Reptiles, where visitors will be able to touch the reptiles.
Hypnotists Jerry Harris and Tammy Harris-Barton will make stars out of audience members at their show to be held every day of the fair at held at the Pacific Power Community Stage.
Those looking for a little comedy may find entertainment in three outrageous cowpokes, which will also be part of the 10 days of entertainment.
Besides days of free entertainment, special promotional days will also be held during the annual fair.
Friday, Sept. 24 will be the KIMA-TV Day, which is offering free admission and parking until 3 p.m. Carnival wristbands will be available for $18 for those wanting to tackle the rides from noon until 10 p.m.
Sunday, Sept. 26 is Yakima Valley Farm Workers (YVFW) Clinic Day. The first 5,000 guests attending the Spanish rodeo and visiting the YVFW mobile clinic will receive a free Frisbee-like flyer. Ride wristbands valid from 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. will be available for $25.
Fair-goers on Monday, Sept. 27 will enjoy Snyder's bread day. With a marked Snyder's bread sack, the cost of admission to the fair with unlimited carnival rides is $22. Unlimited rides will be from 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. Snyder's day is the only day of the fair that the cost for a wristband includes fair admission.
On Tuesday, Sept. 28, from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. KIMA-TV and Living Care Retirement Community will sponsor half-price admission for all in honor of the military personnel, veterans and senior citizens. Wristbands valid from 3 p.m. to 9 p.m. will be available for $18.
Pepsi Family Day will be Wednesday, Sept. 29. Those wanting to attend the fair who bring an empty Pepsi can, pay $20 and receive admission for two adults and two youths (ages 6-12). Carnival wristbands are $18 and can be used between 3 and 9 p.m.
Thursday, Sept. 30, is Pizza Hut Little Buckaroo Day. Admission for youths ages 6-12 is $1 after 4 p.m. Wristbands will be available for $18 and can be used from 3 to 9 p.m.
The first 500 adults wearing pink on Friday, Oct. 1, will each received a coupon for $2 Pink Panther scratch ticket from the Lottery Booth in the SunDome. They will also have a chance to win the Ultimate Football Weekend and $20,000 on Washington Lottery "Think Pink, Wear Pink" Day. Carnival wristbands valid from 3 to 10 p.m. will be available for $18.
Bring an empty can of Coca-Cola Sunday, Oct. 3, for Coca-Cola Day and two adults and two children (ages 6-12) will be allowed to attend the fair for $25. Wristbands valid from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. will be available for $20.
Ticket prices for the fair are $10 for adults and $5 for youths ages 6-12 and senior citizens 65 and older.
Discounted tickets are available through Sept. 23. Discounted adult tickets are $8.50 each and youth (ages 6-12) and senior citizen tickets are $5 each.
A family pack is available for $39. The pack includes gate admission for two adults and two youths and 36 ride coupons. Three dollars in Butler coupons good for games, cotton candy and soft drinks is also included in the package. Butler ride booklets with 36 ride coupons are currently available for $15.
Discounted tickets are available at the Central Washington State Fair office, 1301 S. Fair Avenue, Yakima. They can also be ordered by phone at (509) 248-7160.
 
Local singers to perform at Yakima fair
Hanging up Italian arias for the day the Rice sisters will be harmonizing country favorites from artist such as Allison Krauss and Martina McBride.
Aileen, Erin and Caitlin Rice, all originally of Alderwood, will perform the evening of Saturday, September 25 at the fair gazebo.
The daughters of Andrew and Terri Rice of Alderwood, the girls have considered the community their home since 1993.
Erin, 22, is the oldest. She is currently a nurse in Pullman. Aileen, 16, and Caitlin, 17, are both attending Yakima Valley Community College and are expected to receive their associate's degrees this June.
According to Terri Rice, Erin has been singing the longest. She received a singing scholarship when she was attending college. Since then her sisters have followed suit. They all take voice lessons, and it was actually their voice teacher who suggested they perform at the fair.
"She thought the fair would expand their exposure a little," said Mrs. Rice.
 
photo provided by Terri Rice
Aileen, Erin and Caitlin Rice (L-R) of Alderwood will be performing country music favorites at the Central Washington State Fair gazebo the evening of Saturday, Sept. 25.


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


