


Obituaries


 


Date Published to Web: 6/10/2004




WAYNE RICHARD POWELL


WAYNE RICHARD POWELL


Wayne Richard Powell, 40, of Moxee passed away Monday, June 7, 2004, of an apparent massive heart attack.


He was born Dec. 31, 1963 in Prosser, the youngest of eight children of Richard and Mary Powell. He graduated from Grandview High School in 1982 and then moved to Yakima. There, Wayne met and eventually married Tammy Sare in 1990. Shortly after they moved to Moxee, where they have lived for the last 12 years.


Wayne was a good and honest person, a devoted and loving family man and to many, many people a good friend. He loved spending time with his family, especially his son, Bryan. He enjoyed gardening, camping, working in his shop and parachuting. His hobby was wood crafting, at which he excelled. Wood crafting was Wayne’s way of showing off his creative side, which he loved to share with his family and friends.


For the past seven years Wayne was also an intricate pat of Six Chuter, Inc.
  
Powered Parachutes. As much as Wayne enjoyed working with wood he found that working with aluminum and steel also satisfied his creative side. In his job Wayne touched so many people around the country with his helpfulness and his constant jovial attitude. He truly enjoyed his job. Wayne was a valuable contributor to the design and building of the aircraft. He enjoyed flying and participating in the weekend “fly-ins” throughout the states.


Wayne was a loving husband, father, son, brother, uncle, son-in-law, brother-in-law and friend. Wayne was the one everyone knew they could count on. He was always the first to be there to offer his help to anyone. He had a quick wit, a quick smile and always the first one to laugh at his own jokes; and always able to find the humor no matter what the situation. One of Wayne’s favorite quips., which embodies both his humor and his life was “if you aren’t living life on the edge, you’re taking up too much space!”


Wayne will be greatly missed by his family, extended family, friends, co-workers and all who knew him.


He is survived by his wife and son, Tammy and Bryan, both of Moxee; his mother, Mary Powell of Grandview; two brothers, Raymund Powell of Sacramento, Calif. and William Powell of Colorado Springs, Colo.; four sisters, Linda Goetz of Danville, Calif., Maxine Tull of Yakima, Janice Kamlschke of Seattle and Barbara Riel of Moxee; and many nieces and nephews.


He was preceded in death by his father, Richard L. Powell; and sister, Teresa Powell.


Viewing will be held Thursday, June 10, 2004, from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. at Alderwood chapel of Valley Hills Funeral Home. Recitation of the rosary will begin at 7 p.m. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Friday, June 11, 2004, at 10:30 a.m. at Blessed Sacrement Catholic Church, Grandview. Interment will follow in Grandview Cemetery.


In lieu of flowers the family has set up a benevolent college fund for Wayne’s 13-year-old son, Bryan. Donations may be sent to Valley Hills Funeral Home, 2600 Business Lane, Yakima, WA 98901.


Wayne, you are barely gone and already we miss you!






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





