
Entertainment
 
Date Published to Web: 10/29/2004

1-Column
to all children
GOLDENDALE - From 1 to 4 p.m. this Sunday, Halloween, Maryhill Museum of Art visitors can participate in a traditional Mexican Dia de los Muertos (Day of the Dead) program.
Featured activities will include musical performances by Los Temerosos and guest artists Armando Olveda and Cristina Acosta. There will also be traditional Mexican folk dancing, plus the Viva la Cultura performers.
The Halloween program is open to all ages, and children under 17 will be admitted free with one paid adult.
Sunday's event at the Goldendale area museum has been organized by Courtney Spousta, assistant director for student activities and multi-cultural programmer at the University of Portland.
"Bring your entire family for an afternoon of fun activity and exploration," said Carrie Clark, curator of education at the museum. "Try your hand at painting your own papier-mache skull and watch folk dancing.
"It'll be a great day for families to learn about this tradition that honors ancestors with colorful art, food, music and altars," she added.
The Dias de los Muertos has its roots in ancient Mexican traditions. Families share stories about their ancestral loved ones, prepare traditional foods, create elaborately decorated altars and creatures, play music and dance.
Through the afternoon Sunday, the Hood River Mexican Folk Dance 4-H Club will demonstrate traditional Mexican dancing. Los Temerosos will perform traditional Mexican mariachi music, and Viva la Cultura will present folk tales through song, dance and acting.
"Alebrijes, or images and creatures from the realm of the dead, are also a large part of festivities," said artist Armando Olveda. He will show children how to make and decorate their own papier-mache fantasy skulls. All supplies will be provided free.
Special Halloween treats will be provided by the Casa El Mirador restaurant in The Dalles and by Ayutla's Family Restaurant in Goldendale.
Maryhill Museum of Art, a castle-like chateau overlooking the Columbia River, is located on Washington Scenic Route 14, just west of U.S. 97. General admission is $7.
 
‘Get Lit’ festival ticket sales start next Monday
SPOKANE - Individual tickets to one of the region's premier literary arts festivals, "Get Lit," go on sale next Monday, Nov. 1, at all TicketsWest locations.
Ticketed events include award winning poets Rita Dove and Robert Bly on April 17, 2005, satirical commentator David Sedaris on April 21, broadcast journalist Bob Edwards on April 22 and novelist Salman Rushdie on April 23. All shows will be held in Spokane's Metropolitan Performing Arts Center, except Edwards, who will appear in Showalter Auditorium on the campus of Eastern Washington University in Cheney.
The seventh annual Inland Northwest Literary Arts "Get Lit" Festival will include more than 20 events in Spokane and Cheney during the seven-day festival. In addition to the four ticketed performances, the festival will feature readings by dozens of regional writers, children's events, writing workshops, literary panel discussions and youth poetry slams. Most events are free and all are open to the public.
For more information about the "Get Lit" festival, schedules or tickets, visit the festival website: www.ewu.edu/getlit.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


