


Citizen feels minutes should be amended


Story by: John Panni


Date Published to Web: 7/16/2003


Bob Leeds came before the Alderwood City Council this past Monday night asking the governing body to formally amend its meeting minutes of June 14.
   Leeds felt the meeting minutes of June 14 were incomplete. Leeds said the minutes do not reflect the direct comments made by Councilman John Torch concerning allegations of civil rights activist Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. being an adulterer.
   The discussion in question stemmed from the Council's plans to rename South First Street Ronald Reagan Boulevard, in honor of the deceased former president. During the sometimes heated discussion, which included naming other streets in town after significant people in history, Torch made the comment that he wouldn't want to rename a street after a known adulterer, referring to Dr. King.
   The June 14 meeting minutes make no reference to Torch' comments. One of the excerpts from the minutes states that political overtones were brought into the conversation.
   Leeds said he felt the meeting minutes should be in complete written form for citizens to see what is happening. Leeds said he wasn't sure how long the city was required to keep the tapes of the meeting.
   Assistant City Manager/City Attorney Bruce Rinz said the city is required to keep the tapes from each meeting for up to six years.
   City Manager Tom Rockford pointed out to Leeds and the rest of the audience there is no requirement for the meeting minutes to be written verbatim. Rockford said it is unusual anywhere to find meeting minutes written verbatim.
   Mayor Rex Luthor added that the Council can elect to amend the minutes to reflect the concerns of Leeds. However, none of the Council members made a motion to do so.
   Rockford did confirm that the tapes are available for citizens to review.
   . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com
   






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





