


Fond farewell bid to Fonfaras


Story by: Jamie Smart


Date Published to Web: 2/2/2002


A bronze statue of a lanky cowboy will accompany former Alderwood City Manager Dave Fonfara to his new post as city manager of Chelan.
   The statute was presented to Fonfara and his wife, Peggy, during a farewell party held Saturday night at the Alderwood United Methodist Church.
   Fonfara, who was praised for his many civic and economic contributions to the city of Alderwood, was presented the statue in recognition of nearly 24 years of service to the community.
   Fonfara, who came to Alderwood in 1980 to become the city's first parks and recreation director, also served as the community's first director of Alderwood's Inc., the local economic development agency.
   While serving as the agency's director, he is credited with encouraging such companies as Darigold and Valley Manufactured Housing to construct plants in Alderwood.
   Among other projects on which Fonfara played a major role is the completion of Alderwood's Centennial park and pathway, as well as the Alderwood Foundation statue project.
   Fonfara resigned as Alderwood's city manager in early January to become the city manager of the popular Central Washington resort town.
   Hosted by members of Alderwood Inc., Saturday's reception was attended by more than 70 people, who shared anecdotes about and praises for the long-time Alderwood couple.
   Dr. Randy Schuler, who shared master of ceremony duties with Greg Jones, reminded the couple they left once before for California in the late 1980s, only to return a few years later.
   "We're hoping that happens again," he said.
   The Alderwood Inc. board of directors presented the Fonfaras with the table top bronze statue of pioneer cattleman Ren Ferrell, one of the first statues to be placed in Alderwood.
   . Jamie Smart can be contacted at
   (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jhart@hawkpress.com






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





