
Forum
 
Date Published to Web: 1/21/2003

1-Column
Investingin the future
I would like to encourage all of you to vote yes for the Alderwood school bond and levy proposals. It would truly be a vote for the continuing educational success of our own Alderwood children.
As an educator for the past 30 years in Alderwood schools, I will once again have the opportunity to have a part in the future of our own children in our own community by voting for these important proposals. I have personally experienced how teachers, administration, staff and parents have worked together diligently and continuously to help students improve learning skills and reach new heights.
It is especially grafitying to me to see that many of our young people are going into helping professions. Our students have become nurses, dentists, missionaries, ministers, teachers, counselors, doctors, social workers and are serving in countless other helping occupations. Other students have pursued professional occupations but still make it a priority to help others. Our community should be very proud of these young people who are making a difference in the lives of others.
So let's continue making educational strides and giving our students the best of what education can offer. The cost to the taxpayer is so minimal. One student can affect many lives in his or her lifetime. Imagine the rippling effect of a thousand students bringing service and joy to multitudes of people. Now that is an investment for the future!
/s/ Peggy LaPierre, Outlook
 
Door mat, or welcome mat?
As human beings we are given life, choice and purpose. It is up to each of us to then go about our own journey through life. Wherever we are we have rights and responsibilities to ourselves, our families, friends and fellow humans to do something.
When any citizen comes to our community, they must decide where to live, work, shop, go, stay, make friends, etc. There are countless clubs, organizations and activities here that you can join for dues, and yet there are also free, yes, I say FREE, meetings that are open to everyone...city council, planning commission, Port of Alderwood, school board, chamber of commerce, board of adjustment, to name just a few.
You have to make the effort to go to the meetings; there is always an open invitation.
Any citizen 18 years and older has the choice to register to vote, but with that comes responsibilities. If you want others to make decisions for you, then you have that right, to not participate.
I urge everyone to step out in a leap of faith, attend any and all of these meetings, listen to what issues are being discussed and decided, and become a participant.
The purpose of welcome mats or doormats is the same. It is only our perceptions that are different. I would much rather be a welcome mat than a doormat. How about you?
/s/ Carol Stone, Alderwood
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


