
Forum
 
Date Published to Web: 5/28/2004

1-Column
Christian charity
This note is regarding verbal and written comments relative to legal and written indiscretions of our children.
The following are some reflections of my mother on the subject:
• Clean up your own house before you start trying to clean up your neighbors.
• Be careful what you say, it will come back to haunt you.
• If you want to be a judge or be judgemental, go to law school and learn the correct way to be a judge.
• In this country you are innocent until proven guilty.
• We all have our flaws and redeeming qualities.
• Jesus said after he drew a line in the sand, if you are without sin, cast the first stone.
Or my mother would say, "Mary Beth, are you being a sanctimonious hypocrite or is what I'm hearing misplaced anger?"
My mother was a wise, old gal and tried to practice Christian charity.
/s/ Mary Beth Kirk, Alderwood
 
YVCC party
The Grandview Student Council of the Yakima Valley Community College's Grandview campus thanks Yakima Valley's local businesses for donating their time and services to our end of the year party for the 2004 graduates:
The Valley's Market, Eli and Kathy's, Ken Herber from Dairy Queen, Just Ask Rentals, Bob from Automat Vending, Papa Murphy's, Pizza Hut, Ron Hankel from Washington Beef, Yakima Valley Community College Bookstore, Grandview Church of the Nazarene, El Valle, Domino's, Les Schwab, NAPA, Teresa Hancock from the Funny Farm, Tire Factory, Commercial Tire, Taco Bell, Ace Hardware and Herman Martinez, our DJ.
/s/ Dionne Cohan, Alderwood
 
Privacy rules
I am the recipient of the trouble that the new medical privacy rules, or their intrepretation, can cause.
I entered (via emergency) the local emergency room, via ambulance, having suffered a stroke, and was unable to give them much information, if any. I had an emergency Red Cross capsule on my cupboard door and some information was in it, but not all and not all was correct. My son's name and phone number was included, but he wasn't called or informed of my whereabouts until they went to ship me to a stroke center, which turned out to be Harborview in Seattle.
My son lives in Sultan. He was not able to get any information, even though he had durable power of attorney. According to an elder law attorney, that occured because of the medical privacy rules that came about because of two lawsuits. This clearly was not the intent of the broad ruling, to limit health information in cases of life or death.
Had I not been so determined to get better and back home, plus with God's intent, I would not be writing this letter.
Legislators, please, rethink the intent of the medical privacy rules and save us from death, because we will die if this misplaced interpretation is allowed to stand. Our own children, spouses, etc. are not being allowed to find out in time what is wrong with us if we can't tell them. The doctors will be put upon to make a quick diagnosis without information how to start.
Thanks for listening, but please do take heed.
/s/ Ellen Bird, retired nurse, Alderwood
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


