
Entertainment Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 4/2/2004

1-Column
Maryhill Museum inaugurates new acquisitions gallery
GOLDENDALE - Maryhill Museum of Art has inaugurated a new gallery to spotlight its most recent acquisitions.
Nine acquisitions are currently in the exhibit, including an American Indian basalt sculpture gifted to the museum by the Mary Hoyt Stevenson Foundation, as well as a photograph by Native American artist Chuck Williams, gifted by Mary Schlick of Mt. Hood, Ore.
The basalt sculpture is several centuries old and was discovered near The Dalles, Ore. in 1910. It stands over 20 inches high and is carved in a way that suggests an animal, perhaps a beaver.
"The scope of a museum's collections is enriched by the generosity of patrons who donate special objects," said Colleen Schafroth, the museum's executive director.
The Maryhill Museum of Art, a castle-like chateau overlooking the Columbia River near Goldendale, is open daily from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Also on site is a June and Clark overlook and a cafe that features deli foods, drinks and custom desserts, plus a gift shop. General admission is $7, $2 for children.
 
Central Washington State Fair to feature wine sampling this year
YAKIMA - Thanks to a revision in the state laws regarding the sampling of wines for special not-for-profit occasions, patrons at this year's Central Washington State Fair in Yakima will have an opportunity to sample the winners of the fair's annual wine competition, all 10 days of the fair.
The revisions in the law were signed by Gov. Gary Locke on Wednesday, March 24.
"We have worked hard to help showcase and promote our region's wines and wineries," said Ruth Anglin, activities manager at the fair. "This revision will allow us to do a better job of exposing the wonderful wines that our state produces to our fair visitors."
The 23rd annual wine judging competition will be held June 4-6 this year. Winners will be announced at the annual Sunshine and Wine Festival, held at the fairgrounds in July. The wine tasting at this year's fair will be in the historical Ag Building.
Central Washington State Fair officials also report they are now taking applications from people or groups who are interested in participating in the fair's daily parades, or those who want to perform on one of the stages at the fair. The application forms are now available on the fair's website, and can be printed out and sent in to the fair office. Entertainers should include an audio or videotape showcasing their talent.
The website can be found at: www.fairfun.com.
 
‘Spring Ball’set for late April
The Hap Easter Band will provide the live music for this year's Alderwood Senior-Junior Spring Ball.
Sponsored by the Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department and the Alderwood High School VICA Club, the formal affair is geared for those 55 years of age and older. This year's dance will be held Sunday, April 25, from 2 to 4:30 p.m. at the local high school. All the senior prom decorations from the night before will be left in place to help create a ball-like setting for the senior citizen dance.
Admission to the ball is free, and refreshments will be provided at no cost.
 
Former New York City police officer to perform here
YAKIMA - Daniel Rodriguez, a New York City police officer who rose to prominence with his emotional renditions of "The Star Spangled Banner" and "God Bless America" at the funerals of his fellow officers and firefighters who died in the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on America, will perform in Yakima on Feb. 26, 2005.
Rodriguez will be a guest artist during the Yakima Symphony 2004-05 season.
His voice attracted the attention of Placido Domingo, who invited Rodriguez to continue his vocal career with the Washington Opera. Now, Rodriguez is both recording and touring and will appear with the Yakima Symphony next year.
The Yakima Symphony season opens Nov. 13, 2004 with a rousing Russian program featuring guest artist Maxim Philippov, a pianist. Philippov played with the Yakima Symphony in February 2003 and this year is making his Carnegie Hall solo debut.
World famous violinist Ida Kavafian will be the guest artist on Jan. 29, 2005, playing Beethoven's "Violin Concerto."
Rodriguez will pay respects to his heritage with songs in both Spanish and English on Feb. 26, 2005, and will conclude with a tribute to the victims of 9/11 at the concert.
On March 12, 2005, "Fantastiquely French" will feature the Yakima Symphony Orchestra and Chorus performing three of French music's greatest hits—two of which will be Maurice Ravel's most beloved scores, "Pavane for a Dead Princess" and "Daphnis and Chloe Suite No. 2."
On April 16, 2005, the Yakima Symphony Orchestra will continue its partnership with the Seattle Opera Young Artists Program to present Mozart's comic opera, "The Marriage of Figaro," a musical "potpourri" based on a banned French play.
Season ticket prices range in cost from $50 to $240 for all five concerts, and are available now from the Yakima Symphony Orchestra office (509-248-1414) Mondays through Thursdays from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m.
 
Alderwood documentaryairs April 10
A documentary chronicling the history of Alderwood, "from barren landscape to irrigated oasis," will air Saturday, April 10, over KIMA-TV, Channel 29, cable 6,  at 7 p.m.
The special, "Alderwood - Our Valley in Transition," was produced by George Finch for KIMA-TV and will feature the voice of former Alderwoodr Craig Galbraith, a popular KIMA-TV newscaster.
The hour-long documentary will offer a perspective of Alderwood's past, present and future growth, and will include segments on Alderwood industries and the Port of Alderwood.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


