


Obituaries


 


Date Published to Web: 9/7/2004




MARTIN G


MARTIN G. ARREGUIN


Martin G. Arreguin, 33, of Mattawa died suddenly Wednesday, Sept. 1, 2004, in Mattawa.


He was born Jan. 3, 1971 in Mexico, the son of Isabel (Godines) and Jose Antonio Arreguin. He received his education in California. On April 22, 1992 he married Modesta Sandoval in Mexico. Following their marriage they made Mexico their home until moving to Mattawa in 1998.


He is survived by is wife, Modesta Arreguin of Mattawa; three children, Diego, Yesenia and Isabel, all of Mattawa; his parents, Jose and Isabel Arreguin, both of Mexico; three brothers, Agustin Arreguin of Grandview, Candelario Arreguin of California and Jose Antonio Arreguin of Mattawa; three sisters, Adelaida Saucedo and Marcelina Mata, both of Mattawa and Esperanza Abundiz of Mexico.


Viewing and visitation will be held Tuesday, Sept. 7, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. with a Rosary to be recited at 6 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Wednesday, Sept. 8, 2004, at 10 a.m. at St. Joseph Catholic Church in Alderwood. Burial will be at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood, under the direction of Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood.


 


WILLIAM EARL SHENYER


William Earl Shenyer, 80, long-time Grandview resident died Thursday, Sept. 2, 2004, at Sun Terrace in Prosser.


He was born May 22, 1924 in Pateros, the son of Vera (Housden) and William Fredrick Shenyer. He received his education in Brewster. He served in the U.S. Navy during World War II and the Korean Conflict. On Feb. 5, 1946 he married Harriet Spence in Hermiston, Ore., later making their home in Grandview. He worked at the Hanford Project for 22 years.


He was active in the development of Terrace Mobile Court in Grandview. He also sold real estate in Alderwood and Grandview. He later owned and operated Green/Central Washington Insurance and Realty in Grandview. Following his retirement he owned the Sears store in Grandview.


He is survived by his wife, Harriet Shenyer of Prosser; one son, Richard Shenyer and wife, Pauline, of Grandview; one daughter, Sharon Young of Grandview; five grandchildren; four great-grandchildren; one brother, Neil Shenyer of Pateros; and one sister, Ada Jensen of Brewster.


He was preceded in death by his parents; one daughter, Katherine Dadisman; one grandson; two brothers, Ernie Shenyer and Richard Shenyer.


Memorial services will be held Saturday, Sept. 11, 2004, at 11 a.m. at Bethany Presbyterian Church, Grandview. Inurnment will be held Saturday, Sept. 25, 2004, at Packwood Cemetery, Brewster.


 


DAVID PRESTON MCCLURE


David Preston McClure, 50, of Portland, Ore. and a former Alderwood resident passed away Saturday, Sept. 4, 2004, in Portland.


David was born Jan. 13, 1954 in Alderwood, the son of Myrtle Irene (Wattenbarger) and Arthur David McClure. He received his education in Alderwood. David served in the U.S. Navy as a jet mechanic during Vietnam and was honorably discharged as an E-6.


He enjoyed camping, hunting, fishing and jeeping with the Timber Wolves.


David is survived by his parents, Myrtle and Carl McDonald of Alderwood; children, Terry and Amy-June McClure, Tamara and Brian Hoffmeister, all of Portland, Ore. and Christina and David Barnes, of Richland; six grandchildren; and two brothers, Terry C. McClure and Doug L. McClure.


He was preceded in death by is father, Arthur McClure; and twin daughters, Kristina and Kristeen McClure.


Viewing and visitation will be held Wednesday, Sept. 8, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Thursday, Sept. 9, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Burial with military honors will be held at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood, under the direction of Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood.


 


DARLINE RUFF PHIPPS


Darlene Ruff Phipps, 92, of Outlook our dear mother and grandmother left this world peacefully to be with her creator Wednesday, Sept. 1, 2004, surrounded by her loving family.


Darline was born June 21, 1912 in Orient, Iowa, to John and Mabel (Moyer) Foster. She married Wayne A. Ruff in 1930 in Creston, Iowa. They along with their two daughters moved to Washington in 1936 settling in Yakima. In 1948 they moved to the Granger area, where they had a small dairy operation and later got into the business of raising asparagus. In 1969 they moved to Darline’s present home in Outlook, where they had a grape vineyard. Wayne passed away in 1971. Darline married Dale L. Phipps in 1981. They continued farming on the Ruff farm until Dale’s sudden death in December 2003.


Darline loved traveling, hunting and fishing trips, gardening and playing pinochle. In her younger years she loved to dance. Darline’s first love was always her family. She was a devoted wife, mother and grandmother.


Darline is survived by her two daughters and sons-in-law, Helen and Ollie Dodd and Dorothy and James McCosh, all of Granger; six grandchildren, Karen (Richard) Kobes, Gary (Gail) Dodd, Laurie (Jesse) Rodriguez, all of Granger, Debbie (Joyce) Ruff-Delgado of Yakima, Kathy (Spanky) Bellinger of Nampa, Idaho, Lissa Gile (Don) Bonner of Outlook; 11 great-grandchildren, Julie Nash (Greg LaPierre) of Granger, Danny (Nikki) Nash of Yakima, Gerrit, now serving in Bagdad, and wife, (Erica) Kobes, of Kettle Falls, Kevin Dodd, J.J., Justin and Jacob Rodriguez, of Granger, Jeremy, who served in the Coast Guard, and wife, (Brandy) Rodriguez of Moxee, Ryan, who recently returned from serving in Iraq, and wife, (Sarah) Donaldson of San Diego, Calif., Chelsey Donaldson of Yakima, Misty (Tommy, who served in Desert Storm) French of Nampa, Idaho, who served in Desert Storm, Gail (Jonny) Krowczyk of Kuna, Idaho; and 13 great-great-grandchildren. Darline is also survived by four step-children and their families, Leroy (April Susan) Phipps of Touchet, Cheryl (Gary) Pira of Alderwood, Connie (Ray) Cox of Grayland and April (Gary) Levins of Pukalani, Hawaii.


Darline was preceded in death by her parents; her two husbands; a sister; two brothers; and her most precious uncle, Henry.


Viewing and visitation will be held Tuesday, Sept. 7, 2004, from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Wednesday, Sept. 8, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood, with burial to follow at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood. In lieu of flowers, those wishing to honor Darline’s memory may contribute to the Granger Assembly of God Church, Memorial Hospice Services or the Cancer Society.






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





