
Entertainment Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 3/19/2002

1-Column
Bowker guestof Heritage College all next week
TOPPENISH - Ann Bowker, a renowned fiber artist and painter, will serve as the Heritage College artist-in-residence next week.
As part of her residency, Bowker will juror the second annual Regional High School Art Exhibit that runs March 22 through April 1 at Heritage College. Art teachers at high schools from Naches to Prosser have been invited to submit up to five entries of student art.
Bowker's art will be on display along with the student art. The show will be in the Helen Jewett Student Center on the Toppenish main campus. Artwork will be open for public viewing Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Bowker's art has won numerous awards in painting, jewelry and fiber art. Her work is frequently selected for juried exhibitions nationally and internationally.
A public reception to honor the high school artists and Bowker will be held Wednesday, March 24, from 6:30 to 8 p.m. in the Helen Jewett Student Center. Bowker will present a lecture on her work at 7 p.m. that evening.
 
Toppenish Eagles lodge oyster feed this Saturday night
TOPPENISH - Fraternal Order of Eagles members and their guests are invited to an all-you-can-eat oyster feed this Saturday night, March 20.
Tickets for the 7 p.m. meal, priced at $12, are available by calling the lodge at (509) 865-2229.
The Toppenish lodge will also be serving a prime rib dinner that night, at a cost of $15.
 
Dinner showto feature hypnotist
TOPPENISH - Renowned hypnotist Robert Mac will be the featured attraction at a dinner show to be staged at the Toppenish Fraternal Order of Eagles lodge.
Mac's comedy routine has delighted audiences for years.
The Saturday, March 27, show will feature a steak dinner at 6 p.m., with Mac to perform at 8 p.m. Dancing to live country western music will follow.
Tickets are available by calling the Toppenish Eagles lodge at (509) 865-2229.
 
Garden Expoon tap in early May
SPOKANE - The fifth annual Garden Expo, a community service project sponsored by the Inland Empire Gardeners, will be held Saturday, May 8, at Spokane Community College's Lair Student Union Building.
The one-day, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. event is free and open to the public.
More than 200 vendors will be on hand selling plants, gardening products, services and arts and crafts projects. Local gardening organizations will also be represented at the show. There will also be seminars and show-me-how demonstrations.
In conjunction with the show, the Spokane Community College cafeteria will be open that day for food service, and the college is offering free parking.
 
Tattoo art is focusof Yakima exhibition
YAKIMA - The rise of tattoos in American culture has placed the tattooist in the category of fine artist. In celebration of that distinction, the Allied Arts Council of Yakima Valley will host an  exhibition of tattoo art, "Tattoo: Past and Present," March 19 through April 9, at the Yakima Allied Arts Center, 5000 W. Lincoln Ave.
Former Alderwoodrs Jim and Jenni Rosal will be featured artists at an opening reception tonight (March 19) from 6 to 8 p.m.
The Rosals, who own "Jim and Jenni's Quality Tattoo" of Yakima, were instrumental in putting together the unusual gallery presentation, according to Elliot Challandes of the Yakima Allied Arts Council.
"The tattoo display celebrates the tattooist's personal style used to create unique body art," said Challandes.
Included in the exhibition will be original tattoo art in ink, pencil, watercolor and mixed media. Works by both contemporary and vintage artists will be also be a part of the display, along with tattooing equipment from America, Japan, and the South Pacific.
 
Zillah student actors to present ‘Wizard of Oz’ this weekend
Zillah - The Z Center Stage Theater Company of Zillah High School will present "The Wizard of Oz" Friday and Saturday, March 19 and 20, at 7 p.m. at the  high school auditorium.
Additional performances will be offered March 25, 26 and 27. Tickets are $5 for general admission.
Directed by Lynn Brant, the musical features a cast of 35 student actors. Holly Lacell plays Dorothy in the high school drama presentation with Natalia York as her dog, Toto. The parts of the Scarecrow, Tinman and the Cowardly Lion will be handled by  Erich Sauerwein, Tim Baker and Eric Porter, respectively.
 
Larson Galleryto host 32nd annual photography exhibit
YAKIMA - The 32nd annual National Photography Exhibition, a juried competition, will be held at Larson Gallery on the Yakima campus of Yakima Valley Community College, from April 4 through May 1.
The exhibition, founded by Herb Blisard, a photography instructor at Yakima Valley Community College, will open with a reception on April 4 from 2 to 5 p.m. in the gallery, 16th Street and Nob Hill Avenue, and will run through May 1.
This year's juried competition received submissions from 25 states for a record high of 530 photographs entered, 121 were accepted. A total of $3,200 in cash awards, including $350 for Best of Show, has been awarded to 18 photographers. Awards will be announced during the opening reception.
As part of the exhibition, contest juror Marita Holdaway, the owner and director of Benham Gallery in Seattle, will present a free public lecture, "Finding a Place for Your Art - How to be Seen and Get Sold," on Friday, April 2. Her lecture will begin at 7 p.m., in Anthon Hall  room 102, on the Yakima YVCC campus.
Larson Gallery hours are Tuesday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. For more information contact (509) 574-4875.
 
‘Dance-art dialogue’ exhibit opens March 20  at Seattle gallery
Seattle -  The famed Trisha Brown Dance Company of New York will present an exhibition of dance and art at the Henry Art Gallery in Seattle through July 18.
The exhibition, "Dance and Art in Dialogue," will open Saturday, March 20. "Dance and Art in Dialogue" is a living exhibition that will include events staged in and near the museum in the form of indoor and outdoor performances, workshops and  lecture demonstrations given by Brown and members of her company.
Admission to the dance performances is $8 for adults. Admission is free to high school and college students with identification and for children 13 and under. The gallery, located on  the campus of the University of Washington, is open 11 a.m.  to 5 p.m. Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, and from 11 to 8 p.m. on Thursdays.
For more information about the dance exhibit and other exhibits call (206) 543-2280 or visit the museum web site at www.henryart.org.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


