


Forum


 


Date Published to Web: 10/8/2004




1-Column


Gibson deserves to be elected


Many people don't give the candidates for Superior Court judge a thought until they are in the voting booth. You are different, you are looking for information and reading this letter to the editor.


We have had a chance to work with, and get to know Blaine Gibson. Blaine listens, he gets to the point, is timely and fair. Blaine has 26 years of courtroom experience and has acted as a judge pro-tem, or as an arbiter, in dozens of cases. He teaches ethics at bar association seminars at the county and state levels.


In a recent peer survey, Blaine Gibson was voted 90 to 7 over his opponent to be "Best Qualified Overall to be Superior Court Judge."


Blaine Gibson has the skills, the experience and the respect needed to be Superior Court judge.


You cared enough to read this, please care enough to vote.


/s/ Bernie and DiAnn Schutt, Alderwood


 


Your destiny
is in your hands


I always admired Washington state when they had Senators Warren "Maggie" Magnuson and Henry "Scoop" Jackson in the "Place of Power." They not only looked out for the best interests of Washington, but also America, especially Boeing. Washington needs and yearns for another Maggie or Scoop.


Patty Murray belongs to the minority party and does not have a seat at the "table of power." Patty votes her party line and is an obstructionist, a divider instead of a uniter in regard to the general good of the people. From your best memory, what has Patty done for you?


George Nethercutt has a seat at the "table of power" in the House and also will have one in the Senate, likely of his choosing. Nethercutt is a uniter and has proved that by getting things done. The more I know about Nethercutt, the better I like him. I see another "Maggie" or another "Scoop" in Nethercutt if the people of Washington will give him a chance to prove himself.


Patty hasn't displayed any of these attributes in all the years she has been in the Senate. Your destiny is in your hands.


/s/ Bill Hauf, Juneton, Idaho


 


Work appreciated on park programs


If you read the letters to the editor, you probably notice that I am thanking a lot of people and businesses in our community for their involvement with the Alderwood Parks and Recreation programs and facilities.


Due to the fact that the budget for the department has been cut by 20 percent ($156,730) over the last two years, we are in need of volunteers helping us with programs and maintenance of our parks and facilities. In 2003, the department had over 625 volunteers working more than 29,000 hours in programs, youth sports, special events and maintenance.


I hear a few citizens tell me that they pay too much in taxes and do not use the programs, parks and facilities. Last year, there were 17,000 participants in our recreation programs and classes for youth, adults and senior citizens. 35,500 used the swimming pool, and approximately 37,500 rented parks and facilities. These numbers total 90,000 individuals who were involved in the programs and facilities that are offered by the Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department. Over the past five years the department is providing more programs and maintenance with less funding.


Recently, SunnyView Park hosted a softball tournament with 20 teams playing. Of the 20 teams, 16 traveled to Alderwood to compete in the tournament. Each team consists of at least 11 players. If you figure that some players have family that came with them to the tournament, you can guess that each team had approximately 50 people attending the tournament. Sixteen teams multiplied by 50 people equals 800 people. If over the three-day tournament each person spends $25 per day on food, gas and lodging expenses, this would total $60,000 in business to the City of Alderwood. The city will expend approximately $32,000 to maintain this park for the entire year. This one example shows the need and rationale to continue support for the parks and recreation programs and facilities.


The city of Alderwood is very fortunate to have the parks and facilities within our community. The city council has been very supportive and proactive in maintaining the current assets and expanding with new parks and facilities, such as Centennial Square, SunnyView Park and the new community center.


With summer having come to a close, I want to thank all the staff that has worked to make our parks, pool and programs successful. I would like to also thank the members of the Parks and Recreation Commission for the time and effort that they volunteer to serve on the commission.


I appreciate the work that all of the staff has done over the past months to make all our programs and facilities successful.


/s/ Don Stiles, Director, Alderwood Parks and Recreation Department


 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





