


Lady 'Hounds push past Wapato Wolves


Story by: Ellie Olmsen


Date Published to Web: 1/12/2002


GRANDVIEW - The Grandview Lady Greyhounds managed to keep the Wapato Wolves at bay Saturday night, winning over the visiting team 63-55.
   However, despite what may look like a close game, Grandview Coach Adolfo Hinojosa said it wasn't until the fourth quarter that things got heated. According to Hinojosa, going into the fourth quarter the Lady 'Hounds had a comfortable double-digit lead, then the Lady Wolves let loose.
   "The middle of the fourth quarter they cut the lead to two," Hinojosa said.
   But the Lady 'Hounds weren't going to let the Wapato team walk away with a win. The Grandview team fought back and finished with an eight-point lead.
   Hinojosa said he was happy to see the Wapato team charge back in the fourth quarter, noting that it's good practice for the 'Hounds. Especially, going into a week that includes games against West Valley, Hanford and Ellensburg.
   One of the ways Grandview was able to stay ahead of the Wolfpack was the team did some things a little differently Saturday night. Hinojosa said offensively he put one of the team's guards, Jessica Rodriguez, in as a post.
   "She really picked it up," Hinojosa said. "She kind of dominated the inside."
   Hinojosa said Rodriguez proved she was ready for the challenge of changing positions, and was happy with the results.
   On the defensive side of things, Hinojosa said during the first quarter the team experimented with a new defensive strategy, one the team hopes to put to use against West Valley.
   "We tried it during the first quarter, then we went back to what we do," Hinojosa said, noting that the team typically relies on a full court press throughout the course of the game.
   Helping the team with rebounds during the match-up with Wapato was senior Meghan Waddle. Hinojosa said Waddle had seven rebounds and really controlled the boards for the team.
   Scoring for the Lady 'Hounds were Rodriguez with 24 points and eight rebounds, Waddle with 11 points, senior Keitha Robertson with 10 points, and junior Danelle Cowan with 5 points and five rebounds.
   The Grandview team has two games to make up, after inclement weather canceled two games last week. The Lady 'Hounds will play West Valley Tuesday night, Jan. 13, at home and Prosser Tuesday, Jan. 20, at home.
   Hinojosa said he is looking forward to the match-up against West Valley. He said he wants his team to be able to control the tempo during the game, and noted that the team has been working on its transition defense.
   "I think it will be a good test for us," Hinojosa said. "They will be physical with us."
   He said it will be good for the Lady 'Hounds (2-0, 6-2) to play a physical team, especially now that the team is getting into the middle of its season.
   . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com
   






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





