


Forum


 


Date Published to Web: 1/30/2002




1-Column


How long will you put up with it?


You thought Saddam Hussein was bad?


The 2003-2003 annual report of Planned Parenthood Federation of America shows that they performed 227,375 surgical abortions in 2002 while referring only 1,963 women to adoption agencies.


Do you pay taxes? This same report says that they received $254.4 million from the government. Your tax dollars helped Planned Parenthood kill an average of 623 unborn babies every day of 2002.


Then they have the effrontery to say, "The world is in desperate need of the kind of positive, life-affirming change that the Planned Parenthood mission, vision and promise brings to humanity"—(page 2, annual report).


How long will you put up with it? How long will God put up with it?


/s/ Rev. Donald Van Dyken, Alderwood


 


True Christians


I would like to thank Pastor Groenewold for his January religious article, "The church is divided, yet..."


I agree wholeheartedly that the churches need to recognize and work with their similiarities instead of distancing themselves by magnifying their differences.


It was once brought to my attention that a church's pastor in town had ridiculed my own church. I wrote this pastor a nice letter pointing out our real beliefs and my thoughts that we should act as Christians and unite in our efforts. If we all did this there would not be radical religions trying to destroy those who believe differently from them and trying to force their own beliefs on the world. There would be no more terrorists.


The efforts to be loving, to be true Christians begin at home with each one of us, so that it may radiate out into the world.


/s/ Donna Homer, Alderwood


 


Support bond
and levy issues


As a rule I am not a fan of new taxes, and do not vote for them often. I will, however, be voting for the Alderwood school bond and levy this Feb. 3.


I think it is safe to say that our district has been frugal with money; our tax rates are among the very lowest in th eValley. This money will pay for the construction of two new schools in our district. It will cost us very little in proportion to what the state will contribute in matching funds.


It seems to me the most cost efficient way to meet our present and future needs.


/s/ Sandra Linde, Alderwood


 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





