


Alderwood City Council Briefs


 


Date Published to Web: 6/22/2003




1-Column


Mayor pro-tem absent Monday


Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway was absent from Monday night's Alderwood City Council meeting.


Council had granted Greenway an excused absence at the Monday, June 14, meeting.


 


Next two Council meetings canceled


The Alderwood City Council this past Monday night voted to cancel the next two scheduled meetings because of a lack of agenda items.


Council will not meet on Monday, June 28, or Tuesday, July 6. Council was scheduled to meet on July 6 instead of its regular Monday meeting because of the Fourth of July holiday.


Councilman Alex de la Cruz was the only member to vote against canceling both scheduled meetings.


Council is scheduled to meet again Monday, July 12, at 7 p.m. at the Alderwood Law and Justice Center.


 


Councilwoman apologizes for walking out
of meeting


This past Monday night, Alderwood City Councilwoman Jennie Angel extended an apology for walking out of the June 14 meeting.


Angel inexplicably left last week's Council meeting following a vote on a landscaping ordinance. Angel said she left the meeting because she was feeling ill.


"I didn't mean to leave so abruptly," said Angel.


 


Councilman wants several issues brought up for discussion


Alderwood City Councilman Alex de la Cruz had a variety of issues this past Monday night that he wanted brought back before Council at a future date.


At the top of the list was a report on compliance with the mobile vending ordinance. de la Cruz said in his travels around town he has noticed that mobile vending businesses aren't complying with the ordinance the city passed.
  


"It is being abused like crazy," said de la Cruz. "We have some people who totally disregard it."


de la Cruz also asked that the issue of the city leasing vehicles instead of purchasing new ones be brought up for discussion. de la Cruz also wanted to talk with Council about implementing some sort of educational program within the planning department that will help residents with various building tasks.






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





