
Entertainment Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 10/1/2004

1-Column
Seniors invitedto Halloween party
GRANDVIEW - Senior citizens are being invited to get into the spirit of Halloween, at a costume party scheduled for Friday, Oct. 29.
Sponsored by the Grandview Parks and Recreation Department, the Halloween party will get underway at 10:30 a.m. that day at the Carl L. Stevens Senior Center in Grandview (410 W. 2nd). On the party agenda are lots of games, prizes and contests. Park and rec officials are advising those planning on attending to begin thinking now about putting together a costume for the party.
All Lower Valley senior citizens are welcome to attend.
Following the party, a noon meal will be served. Those planning on attending the luncheon are asked to call at least 24 hours in advance to make a reservation (882-9230).
 
Holiday bazaar planned for Nov. 6
GRANDVIEW - Have an arts and crafts talent you'd like to share with others? Then plan on selling your handiwork at this year's holiday bazaar, sponsored by the Grandview Senior Center.
Tables are presently available on a first-come, first-serve basis. The cost to rent a table at the bazaar to showcase your wares is $10 for a large table, $5 for a smaller card table. Table reservations can be made by calling the Grandview Parks and Recreation Department at 882-9219.
Proceeds from the table rentals will be used to benefit senior citizen programs in Grandview.
In past years, the Grandview bazaar has featured such items as handcrafts, knitted items and baked goods. This year's bazaar, slated for Saturday, Nov. 6, from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m., will again be held in the Carl L. Stevens Senior Center in Grandview, located at 401 W. 2nd St.
 
‘Concours de Maryhill’ to feature car show, race, wine tasting, BBQ
GOLDENDALE - If you're a fan of classic and custom automobiles, you won't want to miss out on the sixth annual "Concours de Maryhill."
Scheduled for Saturday and Sunday, Oct. 9-10, the yearly event is again expected to attract hundreds of people. Visitors to Maryhill Museum, located near Goldendale, will have an array of mint condition vintage, classic and custom cars to admire on Saturday. Refreshment vendors will also be on-site that day, including Cafe Maryhill with a wide selection of menu items and Oregon Trail Candy, which will be offering fruit pies. Admission to the car show and outdoor sculpture garden, surprisingly, is free.
"The legendary Sam Hill, founder of Maryhill Museum, was a car and road enthusiast," said Colleen Schafroth, executive director of the museum. "He would love this event," she added.
At noon on Saturday, approximately 40 vintage race cars will parade down Scenic Route 14 into the car show at the museum. The 1930 through 1960s vehicles will compete in a hill climb race the following day, on the museum's Historic Loops Road, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
"This is an open car show, so anyone with a special car may enter," said Travis Gray of the Goldendale Motorsports Association, the co-sponsor of the event. Gray said collectors interested in showing their vehicle are encouraged to call (509) 773-3677 to make arrangements. He said the lawns at the museum are extensive, so there's space available for numerous automobiles.
Awards will be presented at 3:30 p.m. Saturday, following by a BBQ dinner on the museum's picnic grounds. Following that, a wine tasting session is scheduled at nearby Maryhill Winery.
Promotional support for the car show and hill climb race is being provided by Meadow Outdoor Advertising of The Dalles, Ore.
Sunday, spectators can view the hill climb race from an overlook on U.S. 97, just three miles north of Scenic Route 14. The race is organized by the Society of Vintage Racing Enthusiasts, and only their approved cars and drivers can compete.
Maryhill Museum, a castle-like mansion overlooking the Columbia River Gorge, is located just west of U.S. 97 on Washington's Scenice Route 14.
 
‘Impact’ comingto Yakima, Richland
Yakima Valley residents are being urged to celebrate the onset of winter and the thrill of action sports at "Impact," the 55th annual Warren Miller movie that is presently touring the country.
The film showcases winter sports' top athletes and local heroes on the big screen as producers travel to fabled and exotic locations around the globe in search of the perfect ride, deepest powder and sickest lines. Promoters say each screening of the movie is a high energy event booked as a limited engagement.
The movie will be shown at Yakima's Capitol Theatre on Friday, Oct. 29, at 8 p.m. Saturday, Oct. 30, the film will be shown at Richland High School at 8 p.m.
Along with adrenaline-filled action and magnificent scenery, "Impact" delivers a high energy soundtrack on a state-of-the-art digital sound system.
Tickets for the Yakima event are now on sale at Sporthaus, the Capitol Theatre box office and at TicketsWest (1-800-325-SEAT). Large groups wanting to sit together should call Warren Miller Entertainment directly (1-800-523-7117).
All who attend either the Yakima or Richland showing will receive free lift tickets to the White Pass ski area, as well as tickets to four ski resorts in British Columbia.
 
Silver Spur Rodeo dates to be switched
YAKIMA - Organizers of the 2005 Silver Spur Rodeo—three days of rodeo action and a bull-o-rama—have applied to hold the event in March as opposed to January.
Scheduled dates are March 24-26, at the Yakima SunDome. In years past, the three-day event had been staged in January.
"We want to move the dates to try to avoid any potential weather problems," said the chairman of the event, Ken Messer. "Dates in March would make it safer for travel for out-of-town contestants and rodeo fans."
Messer explained that although the rodeo is held indoors, in some years past bad weather has impacted attendance because of ice and snow on the highways.
He added that the rodeo committee is looking at the possibility of creating a three-day entertainment event on the Central Washington State Fairgrounds that is built around the rodeo.
"We think these new dates in March will give us a better chance to grow the rodeo," Messer said.
 
Seattle Symphony in concert Oct. 13
ELLENSBURG - Central Washington University will present the Seattle Symphony on Wednesday, Oct. 13, at 7:30 p.m., in the music education building on the Ellensburg campus.  It is one of the "Inaugural Season Showcase Performances" that will be held through the 2004-05 academic year in the university's new $29 million facility.
The symphony's CWU performance is sponsored by Cave B Estate Winery, Puget Sound Energy, Lydig Construction, Coca Cola and the associated students of Central Washington University.
Tickets are $25 and are available at the Samuelson Union Building (SUB) ticket counter, weekdays from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., or by calling (509) 963-3513, weekdays from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.  Remaining tickets will be available at the door.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


