
Forum
 
Date Published to Web: 7/14/2003

1-Column
Pet population
We were reading your newspaper at work, at the City of Grandview, and we noticed the ad for a lost boxer with a Grandview tag. We researched the issue and found that the person had moved. When we finally found her phone number, we gave her a call thinking she would be elated to find her lost pet. Unfortunately, she had no interest in the dog.
Luckily, the caring person who rescued Princess had already lined up a new home.
I just want to personally extend a heartfelt thank you to the lady who saved Princess and cared enough to not only try and find the owner, but also find her a new home. This is just a reminder to please help control the pet population and have your pets spayed or neutered, to avoid having any unwanted pets.
/s/ Tammy Everts, Grandview
 
Congratulationsto new fire chief
My warmest congratulations to Brian Vogel on becoming the new fire chief for Yakima County Fire District #5.
Before I moved away I was fortunate enough to work with Brian as a fire dispatcher for five years. I always found him to be extremely dedicated, knowledgeable and professional...even during times of great pressure and stress.
The citizens living in Fire District #5 can be very proud of their new chief. Way to go, Brian!
/s/ Lauri (Holden) Taggart
 
Soapbox derbya great success
The sixth annual soapbox derby held at Alderwood's Central Park on Saturday, July 3, was a great success, with many spectators and fans cheering on the 35 competitors.
We want to say "thank you" to the following sponsors for their support of the soapbox derby and encourage all to patronize them whenever possible for their support and dedication to this community: Bob's Auto Clinic, John Torch and Associates, Valley Truck Repair, White & Company, Ace Hardware, Alderwood Inn B&B, Alderwood Daily News and Alderwood's police, fire and public works departments. They all donated money and time and/or materials, which enabled the soapbox derby to be a success.
We also want to thank all the following volunteers who contributed so much time and effort to enable the program to run smoothly and successfully: Rex Luthor, Tom Seeger, George Greenway, John Torch, Bill Underwood, Jim Warren, Laura Berkompas, Brooks Salazar, Jerry Paeschke, Edgar Martinez, Luigi Rosal, Jason Aguirre, Matt Shauers, Kurtis Bierlink, Elder Cano, Elder Brown, Elder Kerrigan, Elder Welker, Chad Werkhoven, the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce, Jim Stanton and the fire department, Ted Mana and the police department, and any others that we may have forgotten to mention. Thank you very much!
Alderwood Parks and Recreation is proud to offer such a successful community event.
/s/ Don Stiles, Director, Alderwood Parks and Recreation Dept.; Joan Niemeyer, assistant
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


