


City Council rejects public hearing request


Story by: John Panni


Date Published to Web: 6/22/2003


Mayor Rex Luthor admitted at the June 12 Alderwood City Council meeting that an official public hearing on a proposed landscaping ordinance was not held as he said it would be. But that didn't stop Council from passing the controversial ordinance, much to the dismay of one of its members, Councilwoman Jennie Angel.
   Angel brought her concerns before the rest of the Council at this past Monday night's meeting.
   Angel stated to Council that she had additional information on the landscaping ordinance she wanted to introduce before Councilman Tom Seeger called for the vote last week.
   When a councilman calls for the vote it basically means all discussion on the matter is closed and Council is being asked to take action on the matter before them.
   Angel used last night's forum to add some of the additional comments she was looking to touch on last week. Angel asked that Council honor the requests of local businessmen to have a public hearing on the matter. Angel read from minutes where Alderwood Planning Commission Chair Jim Warren had said a public hearing would be held on the matter. Angel also mentioned the acknowledgment of Luthor at the June 12 meeting that a public hearing would be held.
   "The request that was made was really important," said Angel. "I think it is very important we hear from the citizenship."
   Angel also read from a list of 14 businesses that long-time Alderwood businessman Pete Sartin presented to Council at the June 12 meeting, who were against the landscaping ordinance. Angel added that four more businesses are opposed to the landscaping ordinance.
   Council, though, refused to acknowledge Angel's request to provide the public hearing and reconsider the landscaping ordinance.
   Sartin then took to the podium and expressed his disappointment with the Council. Sartin said that sometimes he admires the Council members for the tough issues they address and then other times he sits there trying to figure out what is going on.
   Sartin once again reminded Council that the landscaping ordinance will be expensive for local businessmen to implement.
   Sartin then turned his direction towards Seeger, whom he accused of using his political power to put an end to the discussion that was taking place at the June 12 meeting prior to Council adopting the landscaping ordinance.
   "Shame on you," said Sartin. "Shame on all of you who voted for it."
   . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com
   






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





