
Knowledge Bowl league new this year at AHS
Story by: Jamie Smart
Date Published to Web: 12/23/2003
Alderwood High School has long participated in the KYVE-TV's Apple Bowl, a kind of knowledge pop quiz bowl. But this year, the school will also have a team competing in a different type of athletic event for the mind.   Alderwood High School will compete in the brand new Educational Service District 105 Knowledge Bowl league, according to Dan Thomas, AHS team coach.   Thomas, who has coached an informal AHS team for the past several years, said this will be the first time the AHS team will compete in league play, facing 15 teams from 11 school districts.   "In the past, our team has competed with schools outside our region, but this year we'll have our own league within the ESD 105," he said.   The league held its first meet Dec. 11, at East Valley with the AHS team placing second in total points, Thomas said.   "We won two oral rounds, so you could say in "direct" competition, we are undefeated," he said.   Thomas explained the Knowledge Bowl contest consists of a timed oral round of 60 questions and a timed written round of 50 questions. The team with the highest score is the winner.   Alderwood High School will host its first home meet after the Christmas break, Thomas said. The meet will be held Jan. 12 at 3:30 p.m.   Thomas said the high school students will compete in a number of rounds, answering chLofferging questions covering science, astronomy, literature, math, current events, history and a wide array of subject matters.   Thomas' four-person team includes seniors Mitch Lathen, Josh Barr, Amber Gonzalez and Stacey Gorski, as well as junior Amy Kilian as a team alternate.   The rounds encourage the students to use speed and intuition to answer questions, Thomas said.   Thomas said league play will include a third meet at Highland High School in February. A regional meet will be held in Yakima in late February. The winners from the Regional meet will advance to a State bowl in March.   . Jamie Smart can be contacted at   (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com   Jamie Smart/Alderwood Daily News   Speed and intuition are key to the success of the Alderwood High School Knowledge Bowl team. The four-person team includes (L-R) Josh Barr, Amber Gonzalez, Stacey Gorski and Mitch Lathen.   


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


