


Sharks churn through Neptunes


Story by: Bob Story


Date Published to Web: 7/19/2003


GRANDVIEW - A computer printer breakdown last Thursday evening kept the results of the Alderwood vs. Grandview meet up in the air. But late Friday morning, the Sharks learned they had handily bested the Grandview swim team, 515-296.
   The win was Alderwood's fourth consecutive victory, and boosted the Sharks' season record to 7-2. Thursday night's win also gave Alderwood a season sweep of the Neptunes.
   Alderwood out-pointed the Neptunes in nine of the 12 age divisions. Grandview's strength came at girls 18&U, and in the boys 14&U and 16&U races.
   The leader for the 18&U Grandview girls was Danelle Cowan, who managed to win two of the five individual races. She also garnered two runner-up finishes and swam on both winning relay squads. Teammate Jessica Arteaga added an individual race victory, a second place finish and two relay wins.
   Preventing Grandview from completely dominating the girls 18&U division was Emily Kresse. The Alderwood swimmer won the 40-yard butterfly and 160-yard individual medley events.
   Keagan Christensen was a one-man wrecking crew for Grandview at boys 14&U. Christensen was victorious in four of the five individual races, and paced the Neptunes to victory in the 160-yard medley relay. The only race Christensen didn't win was the 40-yard freestyle, which Sam Bardell of Alderwood laid claim to. Bardell easily got by Christensen in that event, besting the runner-up by nearly a second and a half.
   In the other age division Grandview dominated-boys 16&U-Kevin Concienne and Jacob Robillard were the standouts for the Neptunes. Concienne piled up three individual race victories and two runner-up performances, while Robillard was a two-time winner and had three second place finishes.
   Alderwood was untouchable in the nine other age divisions.
   At girls 8&U, Brittany Broersma and Sydnee Hernandez provided the one-two punch for the Sharks. Broersma won all four races, while Hernandez placed second in all four.
   Alderwood's Toni Castillo secured victory in all five girls 10&U races. Teammates Marisa Broersma nabbed three runner-up finishes, and Jordain Saenz had one second place finish. Hannah Grow of Grandview got the other runner-up placing. The Sharks won both of the relay events in that age division. Castillo, Broersma, Saenz and Emily Hutchins were on both relay squads.
   At girls 12&U, Kathleen Dolan of Alderwood stood out from the pack. She won four of the five individual races. In the only event she didn't win-the 40-yard backstroke-Dolan placed second, 1.22 seconds behind Grandview's Kinzi Poteet, who had four runner-up showings that evening. The Alderwood 12&U girls won both of the relay events. The squad members included Dolan, Alissa Martin, Megan Schlenker and Samantha Siller.
   Katie Knee cruised through the girls 14&U events. The Alderwood swimmer won all five individual races, and swam the third leg on the winning 160-yard medley relay team. Her three relay partners were Megan Tyler, Janelle Mendoza and Kaitlyn Broersma. Broersma also notched a pair of second place finishes Thursday. Grandview's Sydney Mottice and Cheyenne Bank combined for three runner-up finishes in the individual events. Bank, Mottice, Alexis McLean and Kinzi Poteet won the girls 14&U freestyle relay.
   Rachelle Durfey provided the power for Alderwood in the girls 16&U races. Durfey won three of the individual events and placed second in the other two. Teammate Hannah Glockner scored one victory for the Sharks in that age division. Grandview's Allison Grow was a one-time winner and placed second twice.
   At boys 8&U, Tad Tyhuis of Alderwood swept all four races. Grandview's Bryce Carpenter finished second in all four.
   Cristian Vargas nailed down three first place wins for Alderwood in the boys 10&U races. He also grabbed a pair of second place showings. Teammates Tim Stiteler and Giovanni Rodriguez each scored one victory and combined for four runner-up performances.
   Jacob Hollander turned in the best effort for Alderwood in the boys 12&U races. He won the 40-yard breaststroke and 160-yard individual medley events, was second in the 40-yard butterfly and freestyle races, and swam on the winning 160-yard freestyle relay team. His winning relay partners included Edgar Vargas, Brad Luff and Aaron Henry. The Sharks also won the 160-yard medley relay event at boys 12&U. The winning squad was comprised of Henry, Brent Tyhuis, Andrew Myer and S. McMinimee.
   At boys 18&U, Grandview didn't field any swimmers. Alderwood had two competitors that night-Kaleb Hursh and M. Uribe. Hursh won two of the individual races and swam on both of the winning 18&U relay squads. Uribe picked up three individual race victories and had one relay win to his credit.
   Alderwood hosts the Prosser Piranhas tomorrow evening (Tuesday). The Sharks will be looking to avenge a 462-376 defeat they suffered at the hands of Prosser back on June 29.






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





