




 


Date Published to Web: 12/26/2003




PAID OBITUARY


DEATH NOTICE


HERMAN OSCAR TURLEY


Herman Oscar Turley, 95, of Grandview died Wednesday, Dec. 24, 2003, in Prosser. 


He was born Dec. 20, 1908 in Prosser to Joseph and Myrtle (VanHoy) Turley. He received his education in Grandview. On July 13, 1942 he enlisted in the U.S. Navy and served until Nov. 20, 1945.


On Nov. 16, 1945 he married Verna Hill in Prosser. Together they made their home in Grandview, where they owned and operated a service station and worked for R.E. Powell. Starting in November of 1953 they owned and operated Turley’s Clothing and Sporting Goods in Grandview until their retirement in 1974.


He is survived by one sister, Ethel Stamper of Tacoma; and numerous nieces and nephews.


He was preceded in death by his wife, Verna E. Turley, March 1992; three sisters; and two brothers.


At Mr. Turley’s request there will be no formal funeral services. Jones Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements.


 


PAID OBITUARY


ORVILLE LEE LUTHER


Orville Lee Luther, 74, of Zillah passed away Sunday, Dec. 21, 2003, at home surrounded by his family following an extended illness.


Orville was born Aug. 31, 1929 in Eldorado Springs, Mont., the son of Edward Levi and Zella Vergi (Simmons) Luther. The Luther family moved to the Alderwood area in 1935. On Oct. 27, 1947 he married Loretta Jean Worms in Grandview. Following their marriage they made their home in Granger, where they farmed and Orville was a crane operator for various Hanford projects. 


In 1971 Orville founded O.L. Luther Company, an asphalt and gravel company that continues under the name O.L. Luther and operated by his son, Arnold “Joe”, and grandsons, Lee and Joseph Luther. Orville and Loretta resided for 52 years in Granger and for the past two years had made their home in Zillah. 


Orville was a member of the Operating Engineers for more than 20 years and a member of the Liberty Methodist Church in Granger. Orville was very devoted to his business, cherished time spent with family and had a passion for fishing.


Orville is survived by his loving wife of 56 years, Loretta of Zillah; three children, Arnold “Joe” Luther and wife, Susie, of Outlook, Jeaneva Hallett and husband, Ray, of Grandview and Diane Jones of Zillah; seven grandchildren, Shannon Luther, Lee Luther (Jeanelle), Joseph Luther (Kendra). WES Hallett (Cristie), Matthew Hallett (Asayo), Hillary Nesary (Chris) and Mallory Jones; four great-grandchildren; Joleen Buckingham, Raelynn Nesary, Owen Luther and Tomi Luther; one brother, Leo Luther of Bickleton; and Vera Barbour of Kansas City, Mo.


He was preceded in death by his parents; two brothers, Claude Luther and Norman Luther; one sister, Nancy Gates; several other brothers and sisters; and nieces and nephews.


Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, Dec. 26, 2003, from 3 to 8 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Saturday, Dec. 27, 2003, at 10 a.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Burial will follow at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood. Those wishing to honor Orville’s memory may contribute to the cancer memorial of the donor’s choice. Memorials may be left at Jones Funeral Home at the time of service.






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





