
Obituaries
 
Date Published to Web: 6/23/2004

KATHRYN MCDONALD CHARVET
KATHRYN MCDONALD CHARVET
Kathryn (Kay) McDonald Charvet, 63, died Monday, June 21, 2004, at her home in Grandview.
She was born Sept. 19, 1940 in Reno, Nev. to John and Dorothy (Gibson) McDonald. She attended San Juaquin Memorial School from kindergarten through 10th grade. Her family then moved to Sacramento, Calif., where she graduated from Loretto High School. She attended Gonzaga University, where she began her studies in engineering, but later majored in English and education.
On June 15, 1963 she married Henry Joseph Charvet in Sacramento. In May 1965 they settled in Grandview to raise their family and begin a career of farming.
She is survived by her husband of 41 years, Henry J. Charvet; three children, Karen Triplett (Bren) of Colorado Springs, Colo., Hal Charvet (Beth) of Kirkland and Kim Skok (Gavin) of Issaquah; and eight granddaughters.
A Rosary will be held Thursday, June 24, 2004, at 7 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Grandview. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Friday, June 25, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Blessed Sacrament Church. Interment will follow at Mabton Cemetery. Wells Funeral Home, Grandview, is in charge of arrangements.
 
JAKE MAUCH
Jake Mauch, 88, long-time Alderwood resident, died Monday, June 21, 2004, at Hillcrest Manor.
He was born Sept. 8, 1915 in Robinson, N.D. to Jacob and Emma (Wacker) Mauch. On Aug. 22, 1936 he married Irene Haeger in Bell Fouche, S.D., later moving to Washington to make their home. He farmed and worked for Henry Weckter and the sugar beet factory in Toppenish. They later purchased 80 acres of land, where they farmed and had a small dairy. He also worked various jobs along with his farming, custom hauling, working at Del Monte in Toppenish and cutting meat for Pete Hoyte Market. In 1950 he sold his farm and went to barbering in the Valley, which he enjoyed for many years. In 1964 he retired and moved to Alderwood.
He is survived by his wife of 67 years, Irene Mauch of Alderwood; four daughters, Betty Brown of Beatty, Ore., Arlene Poole of Union Gap, Billie Clements of Toppenish and Mona Worrell of Alderwood; one brother, Reuben Mauch of Toppenish; 15 grandchildren; and 17 great-grandchildren.
He was preceded in death by his parents; two sons, Donald and Howard Mauch; five brothers, Art, Dave, Ronald, Sam and Ben; and one sister, Alvina Moser.
Viewing and visitation will be held Friday, June 25, 2004, from 1to 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Funeral services will be held Saturday, June 26, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood, with burial to follow at Elmwood Cemetery, Toppenish. Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements.
 
JOSEFINA PEREZ ALVAREZ
Josefina Perez Alvarez, 25, of Mabton passed away Sunday, June 20, 2004, due to injuries sustained in an auto accident.
 She was born March 19, 1979 in Cueramaro, Mexico to Salvador and Olga (Perez) Alvarez. She received her education in Grandview. Josefina had been currently employed at Pizza Hut in Grandview.
 She enjoyed spending time with her children and having a good time. Josefina also collected angels which she enjoyed very much. She has now passed on to be an angel of God.  She had many friends that knew the loving and kind hearted person that Josie always was. Her particular laugh, look and sense of humor will always be remembered. The love that she had for her daughters can never be replaced for they were her world.
She is survived by her parents, Salvador and Olga (Perez) Alvarez of Grandview; two daughters, Alexandra Reyna and Angel Giovanni Reyna, both of Mabton; one brother, Javier Alvarez of Mabton; one sister, Abigail Alvarez of Grandview; her grandmother, Antonia Salvador of Mexico and grandparents, Dorotea Perez and Santiago Perez Munoz of Grandview; and numerous aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, cousins and friends.
Viewing and visitation will be held Wednesday, June 23, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. with an evening service at 6:30 at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Thursday, June 24, 2004, at noon at Immaculate Conception Catholic Church, Mabton, with burial to follow at Mabton Cemetery. Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements.
 
ENRIQUE GONZALEZ
Enrique Gonzalez, 19, of Mabton passed away Sunday, June 20, 2004, due to injuries sustained in an auto accident.
He was born Oct. 29, 1984 in Mexico to Rafael and Maria Carmen (Reyna) Gonzalez. He spent his early years in Mexico with his family until moving to Mabton in 1996, where he attended school.
Enrique enjoyed spending time with his friends and family, and he was a very happy person with many dreams to fulfill.
He is survived by his mother, Maria Carmen Reyna of Mabton; three brothers, Leonard Gonzalez Reyna, Christian Rafael Gonzalez and Joann Jesus Gonzalez, all of Mabton; his grandparents, Guadalupe Serrano and Maria Pimintel; and many aunts, uncles and cousins.
He was preceded in death by his father, Rafael Gonzalez.
Viewing and visitation will be held Thursday, June 24, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. with a Rosary to be recited at 6 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Friday, June 25, 2004, at 2 p.m. at Immaculate Conception Catholic Church in Mabton, with burial to follow at Mabton Cemetery. Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements.   
 
RAFAEL GONZALEZ
Rafael Gonzalez, 42, of Mabton passed away Sunday, June 20, 2004, due to injuries sustained in an auto accident.
He was born Feb. 7, 1962 in Mexico to Jesus and Guadalupe (Serrano) Gonzalez. In 1982 he married Maria Carmen Reyna in Mexico. They together made Mexico their home until moving to Mabton in 1996. Rafael worked for various farmers in the Valley. Rafael cherished time spent with his family and enjoyed helping others.
He is survived by his wife, Maria Carmen Gonzalez of Mabton; three sons, Leonardo Gonzalez Reyna, Christian Rafael Gonzalez and Joann Jesus Gonzalez, all of Mabton, brothers and sisters, Jose Mendoza, Sofia Gonzalez and Conception Gonzalez, all of Mexico, Maria Gonzalez of California, Daniel Gonzalez of Pasco and Salvador Gonzalez of Kennewick; and his mother, Guadalupe Serrano of Mexico.
He was preceded in death by his father; one son, Enrique; and one brother, Daniel.
Viewing and visitation will be held Thursday, June 24, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. with a Rosary to be held at 6 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood,  Mass of Christian Burial will be held Friday, June 25, 2004, at 2 p.m. at Immaculate Conception Catholic Church, Mabton, with burial to follow at Mabton Cemetery. Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements.
 
JESUS PIMENTEL REYNA
Jesus Pimentel Reyna, 26, of Mabton passed away Sunday, June 20, 2004, due to injuries sustained in an auto accident.
He was born Sept. 4, 1977 in Mexico to Teodoro Reyna and Maria Del Socorro Pimentel. He received his education in Mabton and was currently attending college at Columbia Basin Community College in Pasco. Jesus was employed at Hanford, where he worked in construction.
He enjoyed spending time with his family, playing video games with his daughters and fishing with his brothers.
He is survived by his parents, Teodoro Reyna and Maria Del Socorro Pimentel Reyna; two daughters, Alexandra Reyna and Angel Giovanni Reyna, both of Mabton; and six brothers, Juan Manuel Reyna of Pasco, Teodoro Reyna Jr. and Jaime Reyna, both of Alderwood, Luis Alberto Reyna, Miguel Angel Reyna and Enrique Reyna, all of Mabton.
Viewing and visitation will be held Wednesday, June 23, 2004, from 3 to 8 p.m. with a Rosary to be held at 5:30 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Thursday, June 24, 2004, at noon at Immaculate Conception Catholic Church in Mabton, with burial to follow at Mabton Cemetery. Wells Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements.


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


