


Forum


 


Date Published to Web: 9/22/2004




1-Column


Sunshine Days
a disappointment


I was disappointed with this year's festival of Sunshine Days!


There were no booths. I love the booths and I know all the kids, at least most, do too. It takes the fun out of it. I think you should have them up.


I can work on posters and signs. I can help. I can get more people to help, too. Please call back (839-8890).


/s/ Kendall Platsman, Alderwood


 


Sunshine Days help appreciated


On behalf of the Alderwood Chamber of Commerce board of directors, I would like to recognize and thank the individuals who took valuable weekend time away from their families to assist with Alderwood's Sunshine Days celebration. Volunteers are the most valuable asset the Chamber has, and each person and "man hour" is appreciated.


The day's festivities began with the first ever Sunshine Days community breakfast, which means that we started cooking at 5 a.m. The bright eyed, busy tailed breakfast crew included Elner Becker, Juanita Schlieve, Rhoda Giffen, Karen Friend, Ron Sidwell, Brezzi Campos, Barb Wells and Ruth Ganser. Very special thanks to Leah Schaneman, who worked with us in the high school kitchen, and to Ret Stewart of Zillah, who helped us with ideas and organization. Thanks also to Tami Silva at the Dairy Fair, who donated the milk and yogurt.


The parade line-up volunteers stepped up next. This group included Ruben Carrera, Dorothy Leonard, Lloyd Phinney, Marshall Doak, Tom and Dawn Gaulke and Jesse Gonzales. People who volunteered to judge parade entries were Ginny Staggers, Janice Dorsey, Marge DeLorme, Carol Newhouse, Sabio Lara, Alfonso Santos, Brezzi Campos and Jennie Angel. Our apologies to everyone who waited for judging, in particular the pre-schoolers, their parents and their instructors. Apparently, we had a breakdown in communication, and the judging was delayed. We will endeavor not to make the same mistakes in the future.


Larry Southern graciously agreed to announced the parade entries, and after the parade
  
several young ladies from Panda Bear Childcare Center danced and sang for the crowd at Centennial Square. At 1 p.m. the air was filled with sweet sounds from the Alderwood Valley Community Band. Many thanks to Bill Flower, the Foundation for the Community of Alderwood and Daybreak Rotary for the roles they played in making this concert happen.


The Sunshine Days festivities concluded with another spectacular Miss Alderwood Pageant. Jennifer Golden has the annual pageant running like a well oiled machine, and she and the pageant committee deserve a standing ovation. Congratulations to the new Miss Alderwood, Andrea Phillips, and to Princesses Jacqueline DeRuyter, Jamie Durbin and Megan Cornelius. As always, the Chamber looks forward to working with them in the coming year.


Many thanks to the city employees for their hard work and support. We said "tables," and they said, "How many?" The police department served their community well in their assistance with the parade.


Thank you ladies and gentlemen!


/s/ Kathy Corliss, Tourism & Promotions Director, Alderwood Chamber of Commerce


 


Nethercutt vote encouraged


I support George Nethercutt for U.S. Senate, and I encourage voters to vote for him this coming general election.


Nethercutt will support and vote for well qualified federal judge nominees. Patty Murray has voted against well qualified federal judge nominees whom President Bush has nominated. It has been disgusting to see Murray vote for filibusters to block the Senate from votong on excellent nominees.


Nethercutt has worked directly with the Veterans Administration to keep veteran hospitals open in our state. In her ads, Murray likes to take the credit.


Nethercutt is a strong leader. He has supported Medicare prescription drug benefits; whereas Murray voted against them. He has supported tax relief for job creation; whereas Murray has voted 282 times in favor of higher taxes. He has supported a stronger military to defend our homeland; whereas Murray has voted against our military more than 30 times.


Let me clear up the discussion about Nethercutt's residence. He has not moved to Bellevue. He is renting an apartment there for when he campaigns on the west side of the state. He has spent much time in Eastern Washington. But his home is still in Spokane.


We need stronger Washington state representation in the U.S. Senate. I urge you to vote for George Nethercutt for U.S. Senate. He has represented Washington well in the U.S. House of Representatives and will do so in the Senate also.


/s/ Lydia Lommers, Alderwood


 


 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





