
Entertainment Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 2/27/2003

1-Column
Easter egg train pulls out of station Sunday, April 11
HOOD RIVER, ORE. - Box Car Bunny, with a basketful of goodies, will be the featured attraction on the Mt. Hood Railroad Easter egg train that is scheduled to leave the Hood River station Sunday, April 11.
The 44-mile round-trip ride, to begin at 10 a.m., will begin in Hood River and continue through thousands of acres of dramatic, colorful fruit tree blossoms in the region's many orchards. The turn-around point will be the quaint town of Parkdale, at the foot of majestic Mt. Hood.
Once in Parkdale, children aboard the train will be treated to an Easter egg hunt at the city park.  During the return trip, children will receive Easter goodies. The train will arrive back in Hood River at about 2:15 p.m.
The 98-year-old Mt. Hood Railroad is designated as an historic site by the National Register of Historic Places. The railway company has been in continuous operation since 1906 as a freight carrier, and has carried passengers since 1988.
Tickets for the April 11 excursion, priced at $25.50 for adults and $17.50 for children, are available by calling 1-800-872-4661.
 
GHS crab feed slated for Sunday
GRANDVIEW - The fourth annual Grandview High School FFA/DECA crab feed, open to the public, is scheduled for this coming Sunday, Feb. 29.
The 4 to 7 p.m. dinner fund-raiser will be held at the Grandview High School cafeteria. Tickets, priced at $25 for adults and $15 for senior citizens, are available from Grandview FFA and DECA Club members. Some tickets will also be available at the door Sunday afternoon.
 
‘Heartstrings’in concert Sunday
PROSSER - The Lower Alderwood Valley Gospel singing group, "Heartstrings," will be in concert at the Prosser Church of God this coming Sunday, Feb. 29, at 6 p.m.
The group's recently released first album, on CD's and cassettes, will be available for purchase at Sunday night's concert.
All Lower Valley residents are invited to attend the Feb. 29 concert at the Prosser church, located at 1332 Meade Ave.
 
Kinderkoncertto be stagedat Capitol Theatre
YAKIMA - The Yakima Youth Symphony Orchestra will present its annual Kinderkoncert event Sunday, March 7, at 3 p.m. at Yakima's Capitol Theatre.
Kinderkoncert will feature performances by the youth orchestra, under the direction of Carol Alexander. The group consists of more than 50 students from throughout the Yakima Valley.
The musical event is billed as a special program for children and their families, and attracts patrons of all ages who enjoy listening to great music. Musicial selections are made especially with the young listener in mind.
The theme for this year's program will be "Peter and the Wolf." The "Radetzky March," by J. Strauss Sr., will also be performed.
Following the program, the audience will have the opportunity to meet with the musicians.
Because of a donation from Target stores, organizers are able to present this year's concert free of charge, although donations will be accepted at the door.
 
Valley Buddhists host spring dinner
WAPATO - The Wapato Buddhist Church will host its 43rd annual sukiyaki dinner Sunday, March 7, at the Buddhist hall, 212 W. Second Street, Wapato. Dinner will be served from 1:30 to 3:30 p.m.
Tickets are $9 per person and will be available at the door.
 
‘Guys and Dolls’ tickets go           on sale Monday
Reserve tickets will go on sale Monday, March 1, for the Valley Theater Company production of Guys and Dolls.
Tickets are $10 for adults and $8 for senior citizens and students.
Guys and Dolls opens March 19, with additional performances set for March 20, 26 and 27, at 7:30 p.m. with the Sunday, March 21, matinee at 2 p.m.
All performances will be held at the Alderwood High school auditorium.
Tickets will be  on sale at the Alderwood Daily News in Alderwood, the Grandview Safeway store and Prosser's Elfers-Lyons Pharmacy.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


