


Friends of the Library prepare for annexation election in Alderwood


Story by: Ellie Olmsen


Date Published to Web: 2/11/2002


The fate of the Alderwood library will be decided in a special election set to take place Tuesday, March 9, and a group of volunteers calling themselves the Friends of the Library aren't about to sit idly by and wait to see what the community decides will happen to the annexation proposal.
   Tuesday night the group devoted time to ensuring everyone in the community is aware of the upcoming library annexation proposition, getting informational mailings ready to send out to Alderwood voters.
   Bill Flower, one of the volunteers involved in the library group, said there are more than 30 people involved in spreading the word about the upcoming election, including the group's chairman, Pat Kezele.
   Tuesday night the volunteers, including community members Jose A. and Beatrice Villanueva, as well as Frank and Bettie Siliano, gathered at the Holy Trinity Episcopal Church to get flyers ready to mail out to Alderwood voters. The flyers detail information about the library, including details about its history.
   The City of Alderwood currently contracts with the Alderwood Valley Regional Library for library services. The upcoming election will determine whether or not the Alderwood Valley Regional Library will completely take over the Alderwood library, not only offering library services, but also taking over day-to-day operations.
   Monica Weyhe, director of the Alderwood Valley Regional Library, noted if the annexation occurs the regional library will likely put some money into the library's current building, as well as work to purchase more books for the facility.
   "It would provide a more stable source of funding," Weyhe said.
   The cost to annex the Alderwood library into the Alderwood Valley Regional Library system will be 49.6¢ per $1,000 of assessed valuation, which translates to a cost of roughly $4.13 per month for a $100,000 home. Property owners living within the city will pay the tax directly to the rural library district. Weyhe noted it's important to remember that those people living outside the city limits are already paying this tax.
   . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





