


Alderwood City Council Briefs


 


Date Published to Web: 5/11/2003




1-Column


Council pulls item from agenda


Mayor Rex Luthor Monday night informed the Alderwood City Council that city staff asked him to remove an item from the agenda.


The item was an agreement with the Alderwood Valley Conference of Governments (COG) to apply for a Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) for a city-wide housing rehabilitation project.


Councilwoman Jennie Angel, who is heavily involved with the Alderwood Up! housing rehabilitation program, asked about the delay. Angel was concerned that any delays would stop COG and the city from being able to obtain CDBG funds.


City Manager Robert Rockford said he asked the mayor to remove the item because he felt there were too many blanks in what was being presented. Rockford said he wanted to bring a complete document before Council, instead of asking members to approve a document without knowing all the facts.


"We do have time," said Rockford.


Rockford said the application for CDBG funds doesn't have to be submitted until September.


Rockford said last night he was scheduled to meet with COG representatives today (Tuesday) to further discuss the issue.


 


 


Councilman concerned about loud music and reports of racers


Councilman John Torch expressed his concern at this past Monday night's Alderwood City Council meeting about problems with loud music and street racing over the weekend.


Torch said he had received several comments from residents about the problems with loud music and street racing this past weekend. Torch said he was even amazed to hear during Sunday night's power outage that people were still able to play loud music.


Alderwood Police Chief Ted Mana responded to Torch' concerns. Mana said he didn't know if there was an increase in activity this past weekend, but his officers did make a couple of street racing related arrests. Mana also said the police department received 15 reports of loud music from 8 a.m. last Friday to 8 a.m. Monday. The police chief said a majority of the complaints were from 9 p.m. to 3 a.m. on Friday.


 


911 board to meet this Wednesday


Mayor Rex Luthor told Alderwood City Council members this past Monday night there will be a special meeting of the Alderwood County 911 Board of Directors this Wednesday.


Luthor, who sits on the board, said the lone discussion item will be the possibility of consolidating dispatching services in the county.


 


 


Angel to represent Council on Alderwood Inc. committee


The Alderwood City Council approved a request from Councilwoman Jennie Angel this past Monday night to serve on a marketing committee overseen by Alderwood Inc.


Councilman Jim Sarducci is the Council representative to Alderwood Inc., but Angel expressed a desire to represent Council on the Alderwood Inc. marketing committee. Sarducci gave his blessing to Angel's request.


 


 


Council to hold May 17 meeting at community center


At Monday night's meeting, the Alderwood City Council approved a motion to change the venue for the May 17 gathering.


Council will meet next week at the new Alderwood Community Center at South Hill Park instead of at the Law and Justice Center.


Mayor Rex Luthor explained the Council had to formally approve the change of location for next week's meeting to comply with the Alderwood Municipal Code. The city's municipal code establishes the time and location of council meetings.


Next week's Council meeting will formally begin at 7 p.m., but Council will be involved in a set of activities prior. Luthor said unless there are any pressing issues he would like to have next week's meeting set aside for the dedication of the community center.


"This is a fantastic facility," said Luthor.


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





