
Victory over Rangers no cakewalk for 'Hounds
Story by: Bob Story
Date Published to Web: 10/12/2004
NACHES - The Naches Rangers know how to put a hit on opposing players. Just ask the Grandview High School football team.   "We had some kids that were sore after the game," confirmed Grandview Coach Dustin Lamb.   Despite the bumps and bruises sustained by the Greyhounds last Friday, Grandview stole a Central Washington Athletic Conference victory away from Naches on the Rangers' home field. Riding the pinpoint passing of Brandon Artz, who tossed three touchdown passes, the 'Hounds eked out a 30-21 win.   Friday's victory squares Grandview's CWAC South record at 2-2 on the season. Naches slipped to 1-2 in league play.   Lamb said the win will go a long way in helping the 'Hounds solidify at least the No. 4 seed into the CWAC playoffs. Grandview (2-2, 2-4) still has league contests remaining against Toppenish (0-3, 1-5) and East Valley (4-0, 6-0).   After playing to a scoreless tie in the first quarter, Grandview drew first blood in last Friday's game on a 28-yard TD pass from Artz to James Vela. A 20-yard field goal by Cesar Alvarez later in the second period gave the 'Hounds a 9-0 lead.   Naches cut the deficit to 9-6 on the ensuing play, when Dylan Emmons outraced Grandview's kickoff team 95 yards to paydirt. A two-point conversion pass from Justin Weller to Ben Rowan drew the Rangers to within 9-8.   Neither club could get much of anything going in the third quarter. But the final period started off with a bang for Grandview, as the 'Hounds struck quickly twice. The first of the two TD's came on a 32-yard pass from Artz to Vela, the second such scoring hook-up in the game. Grandview's Silas Hansen, who led all rushers in the contest with 171 yards on 28 totes, broke off a 28-yarder for the second fourth quarter Greyhound score. Alvarez's two PAT kicks gave Grandview what appeared to be at the time an insurmountable 23-8 lead.   But the gutsy Rangers wouldn't go away quietly.   Naches countered with a 28-yard TD pass from Weller to Chris Reese, following up the score with another Weller to Reese touchdown connection-the second one a 40-yard scoring strike.   The Rangers pulled to within 23-21 of Grandview on the second Weller to Reese hook-up. Naches opted to go for two on the conversion in an attempt to tie the game, but the 'Hounds stuffed the running play to preserve their slim two-point lead.   Down the stretch, Grandview ended any suspense that was left when Artz threw for his third TD of the night. The final touchdown toss went to Tony Chester-a 24-yarder. Alvarez's PAT kick accounted for the final 30-21 score.   "Brandon (Artz) had a good game," said Lamb. "The best thing we had going was the balance we showed Friday night. Brandon does well when he has time, and our line did a great job of giving him time."   Artz ended up completing 11-of-20 passes for 172 yards. Vela and Hansen were his favorite targets, as they combined for seven catches for 112 yards.   The balance Lamb spoke of was provided by the Greyhounds' great rushing attack. With superb blocking from the likes of right tackle Cody McMillan, left guard J.R. Camacho and center Andrew Peterson, Grandview tallied 198 yards on the ground. Hansen's 171-yard rushing performance highlighted the ground attack.   "Silas (Hansen) put his ten cents in," said Lamb.   Heading into Friday's game, Lamb said he knew the Rangers were going to provide a stiff challenge for his team.   "We were very impressed with Naches on film," he said.   "They bring it right at you," Lamb said of the Rangers' wishbone attack, also praising the 3-5-3 defensive alignment Naches throws at opposing teams.   "Naches hits very hard. They're a touch bunch," Lamb said.   The Greyhounds, though, proved they're not sissies, either. Defensively, Camacho had the standout performance for Grandview, recording 11 tackles and one quarterback sack. Artz showed he isn't one-dimensional, as he added nine tackles and deflected two passes to go along with his three TD tosses on the night. Registering four stops apiece for the Greyhounds' defensive unit were Blake Carpenter, McMillan, Kevin Concienne and Chris Mejia.


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


