
Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 5/6/2002

1-Column
Cantwell bill would makeB Reactoran historical site
WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Sen. Maria Cantwell's proposal to protect Hanford's historic B Reactor cleared the U.S. Senate Energy & Natural Resources Committee last week.
Cantwell's bill directs the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a study on the potential for developing the B Reactor and other key facilities as historical sites.
"The contributions to science and country made by former Hanford workers should not be forgotten," said Cantwell (D-Wa.). "We need to preserve the B Reactor so that future generations will better understand the work of our nuclear veterans, their dedication to our country and the difficult issues our country faced during the nuclear arms race era."
Fourth District Congressman Doc Hastings (R-Pasco) has introduced similar legislation in the U.S. House.
 
Medicare’s new prescription drug cards available
As of this past Monday, senior citizens were able to start signing up for Medicare's new prescription drug discount cards. The new cards are expected to offer seniors discounts on their prescription drugs of up to 25 percent.
Participation in the prescription drug discount card program is voluntary. Annual fees for the cards range from free to $30. The U.S. government will pay the enrollment fees for qualifying low-income senior citizens. Seniors who choose to enroll will be able to begin using the discount cards starting June 1.
 
George withdraws from county commissioner race
Gary George, who just a short time ago announced his candidacy for Yakima County Commissioner Tim June' seat, said yesterday he was withdrawing from the race.
A Yakima area businessman and community volunteer, George said the decision was in the best interest of his family and their future plans.
 
Puget Sound strawberriesready for harvest this weekend
It's been a sunny spring and that means Puget Sound fresh strawberries will be ripe and ready for market a little early this year.
Puget Sound farmers are reporting early crops, with harvesting beginning as early as this coming Saturday.
Those interested in traveling to the Puget Sound area to purchase the fresh berries can find sites that have the strawberries available at: www.pugetsoundfresh.org.
 
Chinook Pass opened today
At noon today (May 6), state highway crews opened Chinook Pass to motorists.
This is the earliest Chinook Pass has been opened for the summer season since 1981.
A combination of more efficient methods of snow removal, unseasonably warmer temperatures and below normal snowpack were what the road crews needed to complete the plowing, snow blowing and avalanche control work.
Chinook Pass is designated as a National Scenic Byway, and provides an entrance to Mt. Rainier National Park.
 
McClure school dedication ceremony planned
GRANDVIEW - McClure Elementary School in Grandview will hold a building dedication and 25th anniversary celebration Tuesday, May 25. Numerous activities are planned for the ceremony, which will boast a theme of "Our Children, Our School...Our Future."
McClure students and their parents are invited to a barbecue that day at 6 p.m., on the playground side of the school. At 7 p.m., there will be a dedication program in the gym for all families and community members, featuring a Power Point presentation, a review of McClure's history and speeches by Mayor Mike Bren and Washington Superintendent of Public Instruction Dr. Terry Bergeson. Those responsible for the upgraded building, the architects and contractors, will also be sharing with the audience.
In addition, McClure's "Ring of Honor" (retired staff members) will be present, and there will be a special memorial for McClure faculty members who have died.
 
Who is Bob?
Employees at more than 30 county establishments that serve adult beverages will soon be asking, "Who is Bob?"
In this case, Bob is the designated driver.
Under the direction of the Yakima County Traffic Safety Task Force, the "Who is Bob?" campaign kicks off this coming Friday. Patrons at the participating establishments who identify themselves as Bob, and are with two or more customers who purchase adult beverages, will be served soda free of charge.
The participating establishments will have "Who is Bob?" posters in their windows. Of the 34 businesses that have signed up to participate in the designated driver program, several are in the Lower Alderwood Valley, including the Blue Moon Bar & Grill, Snipes Mountain Brewery, the Fairway Restaurant, the Silver Dollar, Chompi's Sports Bar, the Golden Pheasant Lounge and Mt. Adams Country Club.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


