
'Hounds race past Toppenish, 42-12
Story by: Bob Story
Date Published to Web: 10/18/2004
TOPPENISH - The Grandview High School football team picked up its third CWAC South victory of the season last Friday night via a dominating 42-12 win over the Toppenish Wildcats.   With the exception of one defensive breakdown, the Greyhounds kept Toppenish in check for most of the night.   "We had everyone up blitzing on that one breakdown," said Grandview Coach Justin Lamb. Toppenish running back Ramon Garza, who led all rushers in the game with just over 160 yards, squirted past the oncoming blitzers and raced 77 yards for a TD.   The Wildcats added their only other score of the night just before halftime. Tomas Suarez capped off the scoring drive with a 3-yard plunge into the end zone.   But by the time Suarez found pay dirt, Grandview already had a commanding 28-6 lead on the 'Cats.   The 'Hounds, who went into the locker room at intermission up 28-12, added two touchdowns after the break to account for the 42-12 drubbing.   Lamb said his defensive unit did a solid job of shutting down Toppenish in the second half.   "Especially the two goal line stands we had in the second half, when Toppenish still had their first unit in there. We had a mixture of first and second unit players on the field, and our kids held when Toppenish had the ball deep on our end of the field," Lamb said.   The Grandview coach went on to single out senior Ryan Dill, who played well, said Lamb, from his cornerback spot. Dill basically killed one Toppenish scoring opportunity when he intercepted a pass in the end zone. He returned the ball about 30 yards to give the 'Hounds good field position.   Scoring-wise for Grandview, senior Silas Hansen rushed for three touchdowns on the night. Quarterback Brandon Artz, a junior, had two TD throws, both to James Vela.   "It was our third straight week of having a rusher over 120 yards," said Lamb, speaking of Hansen's performance. "Our offensive line is finally getting it done."   In assessing Artz's play, Lamb said his quarterback was "...really solid. With a good running game, Brandon is finding some time back there to throw the ball," Lamb said.   Friday's win over the Wildcats upped Grandview's CWAC South record to 3-2, 3-4 overall. The 'Hounds close out regular season play this coming Friday at home against league leading East Valley (4-0, 7-0).   "Oh yeah, East Valley is going to provide us a challenge," Lamb said. "They're as efficient and disciplined as any team I've seen.   "We're just going to try to improve on what we're already doing well," he added.      . Bob Story,can be contacted at   (509) 837-4500, or e-mail him   at bstory@hawkpress.com   


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


