
Andrus and Roberts ready to rebuild
Story by: Ellie Olmsen
Date Published to Web: 8/19/2004
A fire destroyed one of the warehouses at Andrus and Roberts Produce Company earlier this year. The owners of the Alderwood business are getting ready to rebuild.   Last month, Columbia River Steel and Construction Incorporated applied for a building permit from the Alderwood Building Division for the construction of a new warehouse on the site where the old warehouse once stood. The permit assesses a project valuation of $800,000, with the permit fee alone costing $7,691. The permit for the Andrus and Roberts project was one of 75 permits issued by the Alderwood Building Division in July.   Chad Roberts of Andrus and Roberts said the new warehouse will be the same size as the previous facility. Guy Roberts said the building should measure approximately 225x80 feet, and will include two cold rooms and a potato packing area on one end of the warehouse.   He said the new warehouse will be newer and therefore a little more attractive than the building that previously sat at the site. He said the building that was ravaged by fire in February was one of the company's original buildings.   The warehouse was destroyed by an early morning fire in February, which closed Yakima Valley Highway and Highway 241 while firefighters battled the blaze. At the time of the fire, the Alderwood Fire Department estimated the cost of damages to be around $1 million.   Guy said construction of the new warehouse should begin soon, noting that the building should be completed by the beginning of next year. He added that the new warehouse will also include a new potato packing line, as well as other new equipment and machinery.   The warehouse should be ready for next year's potato season, which runs for several weeks toward the end of summer through the beginning of fall. Guy said this year's potato season just started about three weeks ago and should continue for several more weeks.   Other projects that were issued permits by the city of Alderwood in July include a construction project at 625 Midvale Rd. A building permit was issued to the Port of Alderwood for the construction of a new operations office, which is part of the Sequence Batch Reactor project the Port has been working on for some time. The Alderwood School District was also issued several permits last month, including building, plumbing and mechanical permits for work to the Alderwood High School football field concession stand at 1801 E. Edison Ave. Over the summer the concession stand was remodeled. The project included enlarging the stand and adding on to the restrooms.   During July, the city's building division conducted 294 inspections and collected $23,704 in permit fees for projects with a total valuation of more than $1.96 million. The permits issued included 33 building permits, 13 mechanical permits and 11 plumbing permits, as well as four sewer connection fees, six water connection fees, one water meter permit and three public works permits for curb, gutter and sidewalk work.


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


