
Greyhounds welcome new coach
Story by: John Panni
Date Published to Web: 5/28/2002
GRANDVIEW - A large crowd of players welcomed new Grandview High School football coach Dustin Lamb last night.   Somewhere in the neighborhood of 60 players turned out to greet the new head of the Greyhound football program.   Lamb, 28, was hired to replace the legendary Wayne Purdom, who retired at the end of last season after three years directing the Greyhound football program.   Grandview will be moving down to the very competitive 2A Central Washington Athletic Conference (CWAC) next year after spending the last couple of years in the 3A Mid-Valley League.   Lamb comes to Grandview after a couple of successful coaching stints.   Lamb is a 1995 graduate of Pasco High School. The Tri-Cities native played defense for the Bulldogs football team under then defensive coordinator Steve Graff, a graduate of Alderwood High School.   After graduating from high school, Lamb ended up in the Ilwaco School District, where he coached football for three years. In 2001, Lamb took Ilwaco to the state playoffs. While also in Ilwaco, Lamb guided the Ilwaco High School baseball team to its first-ever State playoff appearance.   Last year, Lamb and his wife, Kara, moved back to the Valley, living in the Tri-Cities where they both are from. The couple wanted to move back closer to their family because they were expecting their first child. Lamb and his wife have a 10-month-old daughter, Abigail. Lamb said his new daughter has been a delight.   Lamb was going to get out of coaching this past year, but one of his former coaches talked him into taking the job of defensive coordinator at Tri-City Prep. Lamb also ended up coaching the girls varsity basketball program at Tri-City Prep.   "I am a football guy," said Lamb. "These other ones just fell in my lap."   Lamb is currently substitute teaching in the Tri-Cities area, where his wife is a first grade teacher.   Lamb is excited about taking over the Grandview football program.   "I have always dreamed of coaching in the area," said Lamb.   Grandview High School Athletic Director Zane Wells is very excited about welcoming Lamb to his coaching staff.   "I think he is going to do a great job," said Wells.   Wells said Lamb impressed the interview committee with his enthusiasm and his desire to want to coach in Grandview.   "He came in with a plan," said Wells.   One of Lamb's goals for the program is to create a family atmosphere. Lamb said he has spent years studying the different coaches throughout the state and one coach who has always stuck out in his mind in Prosser's Tom Moore. Lamb said he heard Moore speak once of the family atmosphere the Mustang football program has and how the coaching staff and players are always there for one another. Lamb said he is hoping to build that type of climate in Grandview.   "I want to make it a fun experience," said Lamb.   Another of his goals is to keep build on the winning success Grandview has had in football under Purdom and former Greyhound coach Rock Winters.   Lamb will be busy right off the bat in Grandview. Next Tuesday, the Greyhounds begin spring practice and in a few weeks will be attending a camp at Eastern Oregon University before coming back to start preparing for the fall season.   Lamb said he is looking forward to a long and successful tenure in Grandview.   "I can see myself staying forever, if they would have me," said Lamb.


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


