
Villanueva dominates in Alderwood frosh season opener
Story by: John Panni
Date Published to Web: 9/8/2004
GRANDVIEW - There is nothing quite like starting off the season on the right note. Just ask Alderwood High School freshman football player Joseph Villanueva after his amazing performance last night.   Villanueva's effort last night against Grandview was simply indescribable. He carried the ball 44 times for 321 yards and scored four touchdowns as Alderwood posted a commanding 45-13 victory.   "He has awesome vision," said Alderwood freshman coach Glenn Braman of Villanueva. "He took it to another level last night. Some of the cuts and runs he made were awesome."   Braman said Villanueva also shined on special teams, racking up nearly 100 yards on kickoff returns.   The first score of the game came in the opening quarter when Alderwood freshman Gibby Briones had a 25-yard interception return for a touchdown. Villanueva scored next, punching it in for a touchdown from four yards out. Alderwood missed both 2-point conversion attempts. Grandview answered with a 68-yard touchdown pass and then a one-yard touchdown run.   Villanueva scored both of Alderwood's touchdowns in the second quarter, one from 12 yards out and the other from eight yards. Alderwood made good on a two-point conversion off the last touchdown to go up 26-13 into the break.   Villanueva opened the second half with a 14-yard touchdown run. Jessie Montelongo then scored on a 36-yard touchdown run to put Alderwood up 39-13 after a successful extra point attempt.   Montelongo had the final touchdown of the game, coming in the fourth quarter on a 20-yard scamper.   Montelongo had a nice night, as well, scoring two touchdowns on two carries for 56 yards. He also had one reception for 31 yards.   Braman said one thing he wasn't happy with was the penalties. He said Alderwood had some careless penalties that cost them points.   But, Braman was pleased with the work of his offensive line.   "They are gelling really well," he said.   Overall, Braman was pleased with the first game of the season.   "We saw a lot of positive stuff last night," said Braman.   Alderwood (1-0) hosts Selah's freshman group next Monday, with game time set for 5 p.m.


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


