


Entertainment Briefs


 


Date Published to Web: 9/17/2004




1-Column


OMSI to present ‘Forces of Nature’


PORTLAND, ORE. - The ground moves, mountains explode, the sky turns black and violent—natural forces that helped create life on our green planet are also ready to threaten it. Science buffs are invited to encounter Earth's fiercest powers and the death-defying science behind them when "Forces of Nature" premieres in the Oregon Museum of Science & Industry's five-story Omnimax Dome.


National Geographic, in partnership with Graphic Films, delivers an experience 10 years in the making—the awesome spectacle of earthquakes, volcanoes and tornadoes brought to the giant screen. From an active Caribbean volcano to the earthquake-tested antiquities of Istanbul, and finally on to America's "tornado alley," "Forces of Nature" showcases three scientists aiming to improve our odds of surviving these terrifying events.


Promoters of the film say National Geographic examines these inspiring and terrifying natural events with the trademark combination of scientific excellence, storytelling skill and human emotion that has defined National Geographic for more than a century. The result, they say, is the perfect combination of subject and medium—nature's grandest phenomenon captured on the world's biggest film format.


The film, narrated by Kevin Bacon, is made possible by Amica Insurance and funded in part by the National Science Foundation.


Tickets to the show at the Portland, Ore. museum are priced at $8.50 for adults and $6.50 for children. The film will be shown Oct. 8, 2004 through March 2005. Show times will be at 11 a.m., and 1 and 3 p.m. Tuesdays through Sundays, with additional shows at 7 and 9 p.m. Thursdays through Saturdays.


 


Alpaca show
Sept. 18-19


Post FallS, Idaho
 - The third annual Northwest Alpaca Showcase will be held Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 18 and 19, at Templin's Resort in Post Falls, Idaho.


Admission is free to the event, which is sponsored by the Pacific Northwest Alpaca Association.


The showcase is expected to attract more than 100 breeders of the native South American animal, which has been domesticated for more than 5,000 years in the southern hemisphere.


More than 300 alpacas are expected to be shown and judged at the two-day event.


In addition to learning more about owning and breeding alpacas, visitors will be able to see demonstrations of spinning and weaving of the alpaca's cashmere-like fiber, as well as a variety of educational displays.


 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





