
Mabton police to increase neighborhood patrols
Story by: Jamie Smart
Date Published to Web: 3/24/2002
MABTON - The Mabton Police Department will be stepping up its neighborhood patrols in the coming weeks, following a citizen's complaint about inconsiderate motorists.   Mabton Police Chief Raul Almeida made the announcement during Tuesday night's Mabton City Council meeting, after a North Mabton resident reported her concerns about illegal parking in her neighborhood to the Council.   Norma Acosta said the motorists in her neighborhood have destroyed alley side fences, while blocking the alley way near a busy apartment building.   Almeida said while citations could only be given if people were trespassing, his officers would be talking with the residents in the area.   Acosta said she was worried that someone might be injured in the area. She said the motorists all seem to park under her tree, which borders the alley way near the Mabton Gardens apartment building.   "They just refuse to move," she told the Council. Acosta said the motorists have repeatedly damaged her property and that of her neighbors in the area.   Acosta was advised to put up "no trespassing" signs to enable the police officers to cite the offending motorists.   Almeida said his officers traditionally increase their patrols of neighborhoods in the spring as more people starting staying outside during the longer spring and summer evenings.   He said the officers' presence would aid in deterring misdemeanors and other illegal activities.   In addition to increased police patrols, Mabton residents will soon see the return of the city animal control officer.   The Council announced its intention to reinstate animal control services beginning the first of April. During the past few weeks, city hall has received an increased number of animal complaints from residents.   "Dogs are not such an issue in the winter," Mayor David Contradt said. "But each spring it appears as though our dog population explodes," he added.   


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


