


Tejano music promoters apologize to G'view Council


Story by: Mel Sacher


Date Published to Web: 9/8/2004


GRANDVIEW - Tino Patina and Ruby Carbajal, board members of the Pacific Northwest Tejano Music Association, publicly apologized to the Grandview City Council Tuesday night, two days after one of their concerts got out of hand.
   The concert was held at Grandview's Country Park Stage. Councilman Robert Morales, who had been notified of the incident first, brought the issue to the city council at last night's study session. But Grandview Parks and Recreation Director Mike Carpenter said that a formal statement by the Tejano music group would be made at the regular city council meeting, which followed last night's study session. Most of the city council members were unaware of the incident, and didn't even know the park had been rented for the event.
   Patina, who is the president of the Tejano group, apologized to the councilmen, saying the association is embarrassed by Sunday's events. He added that they should have had a tighter rein on the concert activities.
   The concert, which featured young rappers, included inappropriate language and stage dancing in their portion of the concert, Carbajal said.
   "One of our missions is to assist young people who want to excel in the music business," said Carbajal. "We thought, we'll give these young people a chance. Boy, were we wrong."
   She said the musicians were warned to watch their language, but didn't. She said it all happened before they were able to stop it.
   "It will not happen again," said Carbajal. "We want to continue to do this. We learned."
   She added that they hope to be able to hold future events on the Grandview stage, but they will not be opening it up to such young musicians.
   This year marked the third annual Tejano music festival sponsored by the Northwest based organization. Along with the music, the group sponsored a car show.
   Grandview Mayor Mike Bren said he doesn't expect the city to keep the group from using the facility in the future.
   
   . Mel Sacher can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail msacher@hawkpress.com
   






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





