
Alderwood School Board Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 7/5/2004
   Board votes to call for road improvement bids   Alderwood School Board members approved a call for bids to make improvements to the district's Washout Road property.   The improvements include the installation of a six-foot pipe in the ditch that is located along Washout Road. According to the school district, approximately 1,000 feet of pipe will be needed to cover the ditch. The cost of pipe is estimated at $90 a foot.      Board approves six MSDR contracts   Members of the Alderwood School Board approved six contracts for the Migrant Student Data and Recruitment (MSDR) office.   The contracts are with Denise Reddinger, Ronald D. Vanderholm, Maria Yazmin Gil-Preciado, Maria Alcantar, Heidi Johnson and Candelario Gonzalez. The contracts with each run from May 12 through Aug. 30, except the contract with Gil-Preciado, which runs from June 8 through Aug. 30.   The contracts are for reviewing districts and classrooms as assigned by the Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction (OSPI). Those contracted will attend a special training through OSPI, and will then receive each of the assigned classrooms for approximately 20 minutes per room.   The contract states that MSDR will pay each of the consultants $10 per classroom they review with approximately 50 classrooms per week set to be reviewed.      SEMY contract approved   Alderwood School Board members approved a contract with Peter Weron for the Office of Secondary Education for Migrant Youth (SEMY).   The contract is effective May 6 through Aug. 31, and calls for Weron to rewrite tests from the national PASS geometry course to fit the Scantron format.   The contract is for $23 per hour, not to exceed $3,200 for writing the course.      Board approves contract for personal services   Alderwood School Board members approved a contract for personal services with Positive Outlook, an organization out of Outlook.   The contract states that Positive Outlook will serve as a liaison between the school district and home school families, ensuring that they have access to certain programs.   The contract is for up to 100 hours of service throughout the school year, at a cost of $16 an hour.      District to receive equipment   from Department of Energy   The Alderwood School Board approved an equipment gift agreement with the United States Department of Energy in Richland.   According to the agreement the Department of Energy, through an executive order, must give highest preference to elementary and secondary schools when it comes to gifting education-related federal equipment.   The equipment the Alderwood School District is set to receive includes 10 Dell computers.      Board approves mentor program agreement   An agreement approved by the Alderwood School Board will mean the implementation of a mentoring program through the Northwest Community Action Center.   The agreement states that the district agrees to work with the Northwest Community Action Center to operate the school-based program. According to the agreement, the district will refer both students and potential mentors to the program, as well as promote the services through various school district communication channels.      Board approves agreement with Lourdes Health Network   An agreement between Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital in Pasco and the Alderwood School District will help provide education and therapy programs for students in the day treatment program.   The agreement, which was approved by the Alderwood School Board, is for $36 an hour per student for each student enrolled in the day treatment program. The services will be offered through Lourdes Counseling Center.      District enters into agreement with Yakima schools   The Alderwood School Board approved an agreement with the Yakima School District to provide services to the Upper Valley district.   The agreement states that the Alderwood School District will provide the services of a certified occupational therapist assistant to the Yakima district at a fee of $150 a day, based on a seven-hour school day.   The agreement runs from Aug. 24 to the end of the 2004-05 school year.      Board enters into agreement with Mabton district   Alderwood School Board members approved an agreement with the Mabton School District to provide services to a severely disabled student.   The agreement states that the student will be allowed to take part in the program services offered by the Alderwood School District. The estimated cost of providing services to the student is $11,000, which will be paid by the Mabton School District.      Board approves grant writer agreement   The Alderwood School Board approved an agreement last week between the local school district, Alderwood Inc., the City of Alderwood, the Port of Alderwood and the Alderwood Community Hospital Association for grant writing services.   The 12-month agreement runs from January to December 2004.      District enters agreement with Comprehensive Mental Health   Alderwood School Board members approved an agreement with Central Washington Comprehensive Mental Health. According to the agreement, it is to establish a "school-based collaborative behavior disorder counseling service delivery program" between the two groups.   The agreement is effective from September 2004 to June 2005, and calls for the school district to pay the equivalent of 50 percent or 20 hours of a case manager's salary, benefits and overhead not to exceed $22,000 during the agreed term.   


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


