
Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 4/6/2004

1-Column
Granger to host Easter bash
GRANGER - "Granger Easter Bash 2004" will be held at Hisey Park this Saturday, April 10, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Community residents are invited to participate in an Easter egg hunt, with a grand prize offered to the youngster who finds the special egg. Also at the park that day, there will be food, music, prizes and entertainment.
 
Hastings gets $6.44 millionfor Union Gap project added to transportation bill
WASHINGTON D.C. - Fourth District Congressman Doc Hastings has worked to get $6.44 million added to a transportation bill that is moving through Congress. The money is earmarked to rework two congested I-82 interchanges near Union Gap.
"Improving these interchanges is important both for traffic flow and for economic growth and development," said Hastings. "These funds will help get this needed project underway. It will benefit Union Gap and the greater Yakima area."
Hastings secured $500,000 for the Union Gap project last year. The $6.44 million, if left in the transportation bill, would complete the $6.94 million total needed to complete the design phase.
 
Mabton Community Days organizers seek vendors, marchers
MABTON - The organizers of Mabton Community Days are seeking food vendors and individuals and groups interested in participating in the annual parade.
This year's community event is slated to be held the weekend of June 12-13.
A parade is scheduled for 11 a.m. that Saturday, with food and fun planned for the rest of the weekend at Mabton City Park.
Food vendor and parade applications are now available at Mabton City Hall, which is open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Mondays, Tuesdays and Fridays, and from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Thursdays.
 
‘Come Meetthe Son’ sunrise service planned for this Sunday
All Lower Alderwood Valley residents are being invited to a "Come Meet the Son" sunrise service this Sunday, April 11, at the Alderwood High School football field.
The Easter morning sunrise service, to offer services in both English and Spanish, will begin at 6:30 a.m. A continental breakfast at Alderwood's Christian Reformed Church will follow.
 
Alderwood Port earns financial reporting awards
A certificate of achievement for excellence in financial reporting has been awarded to the Port of Alderwood by the Government Finance Officers Association of the United States and Canada.
An award of financial reporting achievement was also awarded to the local port's finance officer/treasurer, M'Liss Bierlink.
The two awards are the highest form of recognition in the area of governmental accounting and financial reporting.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


