
Lady Grizzlies seeded fourth for Regionals
Story by: John Panni
Date Published to Web: 2/23/2003
WHAT HAPPENED? This is probably the question of the hour for fans of the Alderwood High School girls basketball team.   After putting on one of their most beautiful displays of basketball skills this season last Tuesday against Grandview in a loser-out District tournament game, the Lady Grizzlies failed to show up this past weekend.   Alderwood was blown out Friday night at Ellensburg 59-19 and then just couldn't hang Saturday with Prosser, losing 60-34.   The pair of weekend losses put the Lady Grizzlies as the No. 4 Mid-Valley League seed and gave them a first-round Regional loser-out, match-up at Ellensburg this Tuesday night at 7 p.m.   Friday night's game against the Lady Bulldogs was basically over in the first half. Ellensburg jumped out to a 30-13 lead. The Lady Bulldogs put their stamp on the game with a 29-6 second half showing.   "We took so many shots," said Alderwood Coach Leo Gomez. "We came out and couldn't hit a basket."   Gomez said Ellensburg was ready to play Friday night, as the Lady Bulldogs were geared up for a run at West Valley for the District title on Saturday.   Alderwood wasn't helped any by Ellensburg's Tiffanie Ulmer, who had her way against the less experienced post players of the Lady Grizzlies. Ulmer had a game-high 18 points.   "They (Ellensburg) were just ready to play," said Gomez. "The game got to the point where we couldn't do anything right."   Saturday was much the same story for the Lady Grizzlies at Prosser. Gomez said Prosser was simply ready for Saturday's consolation pairing.   "They (Prosser) were a much different team (then when we beat them in the last game of the regular season)," said Gomez. "They put the pressure on and they never took it off. We shied away."   The Lady Mustangs flexed their muscles in the first half, outscoring Alderwood 35-13. The Lady Grizzlies played a much better second half, but Gomez said it was too late by then.   Gomez said the Lady Grizzlies are having trouble generating any offense. Gomez said he would like to see the same Alderwood team that took the floor last Tuesday against Grandview come out this Tuesday at Ellensburg.   "We just haven't showed up after Grandview's game and played how we can," said Gomez. "Hopefully, tomorrow we step it up and come ready to play.   1 2 3 4 T   Alderwood 5 8 2 4 19   Ellensburg 18 12 17 12 59   Scoring: Alderwood-Andrea Phillips 8, Erica Mendez 4, Bobi Haringa 4, Daniella Rivera 2, Kacee Jo Bootsma 1.   Ellensburg-Tiffanie Ulmer 18.   Rebounds: Hilary Van de Graaf 7, Bobi Haringa 6, Erica Mendez 5, Lanna Pangle 5, Andrea Phillips 4.      1 2 3 4 T   Alderwood 9 4 15 8 34   Prosser 18 17 16 9 60   Scoring: Alderwood-Erica Mendez 11, Hilary Van de Graaf 7, Fatima Ruelas 4, Vanessa Alvarez 4, Andrea Phillips 4, Bobi Haringa 2, Lanna Pangle 2, Melissa Caballero 2.   Prosser-Alex Lulp 14.   Rebounds: Hilary Van de Graaf 7, Erica Mendez 7, Bobi Haringa 6.   


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


