
Business Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 2/24/2003

1-Column
NW Farm Credit Services returns money to clients
Alderwood's office of Northwest Farm Credit Services has returned more than $294,300 back to its customers.
The agency's interest reduction program returned 50 basis points back to its member-stockholders on theier average loan balance for 2003. The average check size was approximately $1,136.
"The feedback we have received over the past four years on this program has been very positive," said the manager of the Alderwood office, Mandy Minick.
"One of the benefits of doing business with Farm Credit is our commitment to return value to our shareholders—our customers," she said.
Northwest Farm Credit Services provides financing and related services to farmers, ranchers, commercial fishermen, timber producers and rural homeowners in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana and Alaska.
 
Nordberg earns insurance honors
Gary Nordberg of Alderwood has been honored for his efforts in helping State Farm Mutual Auto Insurance Company earn top honors in a recent J.D. Power and Associates survey that ranks State Farm highest overall for customer satisfaction for auto collision repair.
Nordberg is a State Farm agent serving Alderwood and the Lower Alderwood Valley.
"State Farm is in the business of helping customers manage the risks of everyday life and to recover from the unexpected," said John Bishop, vice president of operations for State Farm. "Our claims employees and agents work hard to provide the best possible service to customers.
"State Farm recognizes these associates as the best in the nation and commends them as a true measure of our company's commitment to customer service," Bishop added.
 
Prosser hospital adds second MRI scanning day
PROSSER - Beginning March 2, MRI screening services will be available every Tuesday and Saturday from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. at Prosser Memorial Hospital.
The Tuesday MRI service has been added to the previous Saturday-only schedule to accomodate increased patient need.
MRI's are designed to assist doctors in assessing a patient's condition through use of high quality images that allow soft body tissue to be seen in great detail, from nearly every angle, and there are no know side effects.
Patients with a physician referral wishing to schedule an MRI at the Prosser hospital should call 1-800-657-6647.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


