


Briefs


 


Date Published to Web: 5/13/2003




1-Column


McTeacher Night on tap May 20
at McDonald’s


Next Thursday, May 20, McDonald's in Alderwood will host McTeacher Night.


Approximately 30 Chief Kamiakin Elementary School teachers will be manning the fast food restaurant from 5 to 7:30 p.m. McDonald's has agreed to give 15 percent of all sales during that time to the school. The money raised will be spent on establishing classroom libraries at the school.


Also, now through May 20 the Alderwood McDonald's restaurant is selling paper apples as a fund-raiser to help fund the project.


 


State takes disciplinary action against health
care providers


The Washington State Department of Health has taken disciplinary actions against two Alderwood County health care providers.


In March the state's unlicensed practice program issued a notice of intent to issue a cease and desist order against Alejandro "Alex" Guzman. He allegedly offered and performed massages to the public for a fee. State officials say Guzman does not have a license to practice as a massage practitioner.


Also in March, the state's pharmacy board charged pharmacist Judith Wolfe with unprofessional conduct. Wolfe is being charged with diverting controlled substances and legend drugs from her work place for her own use.


 


School board
in Grandview
has vacancy


GRANDVIEW - The Grandview School Board of Education is now accepting applications from qualified persons to fill a vacancy. Appointees must be a U.S. citizen and a qualified, registered voter living within the open director district.


Director District #3 is open due to the resignation of Tony Gonzalez, who served on the board for 10 years.


A map of the district in question is available by calling 882-8500.


Those interested in being appointed to replace Gonzalez should submit a letter of interest to Rachel Ott at 913 W. 2nd St. in Grandview.


 


Musical melodrama auctions scheduled


TOPPENISH - The Toppenish Creek Players will continue to conduct auditions this Thursday and Friday for their upcoming production of "Little Mary Sunshine."


Especially needed for the musical melodrama are men and women who can play 18 to 25-year-olds.


Auditions will be held at the Toppenish Masonic Lodge building (12 E. Third Ave.) on May 13 and 14 at 7 p.m. both nights.


 


REC board
to meet May 25


The Lower Alderwood Valley Rural Enterprise Community (REC) board of directors will meet Tuesday, May 25.


The 6:45 p.m. meeting at the Alderwood Community Center is open to the public.


 


Alderwood parade winners named


The Alderwood Cinco de Mayo Parade winners have been announced.


They include: Kim Arriaga - 1st for equestrian clubs; Rancho Viejo - 1st for charro associations; Francisco de la Torre - 1st for individual charro, Hector Lopez - 2nd for individual charro; Miss Alderwood float - 1st for large community floats, Miss Cinco de Mayo float - 2nd for large community floats; Granger royalty court - 1st for small community floats; Paleteria La Nortena - 1st for commerical floats; Country Carriage - 1st for organization floats, Marlee Zieger - 2nd for organization floats; Panda Bear Child Care Center - 1st for marching youth units; Mayela de la Cruz - 1st for antique cars; and Lowered II Perfection - 1st for custom cars, Xplicit Performance - 2nd for custom cars.


 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





