
Hospice Talent Show bigger, better than ever
 
Date Published to Web: 3/11/2002
No need to stay at home this coming Friday night and watch the same old stuff on the boob tube. Instead, some real entertainment will be offered at the fifth annual Hospice Talent Show.   Sponsored by the Alderwood High School leadership class, this year's talent show will feature everything from saxophone and piano performances, to clogging and jazz dance routines, to vocalists performing rap, as well as catchy standards and original compositions.   "We're hoping we have enough different kinds of acts that will interest all ages and all types of people," said Chelsea Durfey, who along with Andrea Phillips is chairing this year's talent show.   Durfey, admittedly nervous about co-chairing such a large production, quickly adds that Friday night's talent show is a bargain for local residents, as well.   "Tickets are only $3 apiece," Durfey said. "They'll be available at the door that night."   As tradition dictates, this year's show will again be staged in the Alderwood High School auditorium. The curtain officially rises at 7 p.m. Proceeds generated from ticket sales will benefit the Lower Valley Hospice agency.   Emcees for Friday night's show will be Alaina Hull and Isley Gonzalez.   This year's organizers have opened the talent show, a competition really, to teachers and administrators in the school district. Several advanced through last Saturday's auditions and will be joining the student performers on stage Friday night. All of the young performers, ages 12 to 19, will be competing for trophies and cash prizes, with the top prize this year being $100. The adult performers will compete for a trophy.   New to the talent show this year will be an art competition. Durfey said the entries will be showcased in a special display, with cash, trophies, ribbons and certificates being awarded to the top artists.   "Desiree Denton, the artist who's been involved with creating the city of Alderwood's statues for the last couple of years, will be our art judge," said Durfey.   She said the judges for the on-stage performances will include M'liss Bierlink, Bill Flower, Charlene Baker, Catalina Espindola and Joel Stephens.   


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


