


Obituaries


 


Date Published to Web: 1/2/2004




PAID OBITUARY


ESTHER F. VICE


Esther F. Vice, 94, of Stanwood passed away peacefully Tuesday, Dec. 30, 2003, at Warm Beach Community, where she resided for the past four years.


She was born June 1, 1909 in Garrett, Ind. to Coney and Maude Clark. Esther was next to the oldest of seven children. She attended school in Garrett and graduated from Terre Haute Normal School with her teaching credential. She taught for several years in a one-room country school north of Garrett. 


Esther married Aaron Thomas Vice of Martin County, Ind. in 1934. They were itinerant ministers, traveling across the U.S. to hold revival meetings in small communities. Esther played the piano and the ukulele and led song services. They settled in Alderwood in 1936. Her husband died in 1953.


Esther was a devoted wife and mother, teaching her three children how to live and be strong in difficult times. 


In 1949 she attended Central Washington State University in Ellensburg, updating her teaching certificate. She taught in the Alderwood schools until 1969, when she moved to Edmonds to teach and be near her family. Upon her retirement from teaching, Esther kept active. She hiked, took German classes, learned to swim and became a proficient ballroom dancer with the Fred Astaire Studio. 


In 2000 Esther moved to the Warm Beach Senior Community in Stanwood, where she made many friends. The staff and volunteers at Warm Beach made her last years happy ones. She appreciated the loving, competent care they gave to her daily. 


She was a long-time member of the Alderwood Neighborhood Church and the Lynnwood Assembly of God, and was a member of the Sno-King Retired Teachers Association.


Esther is survived by her two daughters, Wilma Jones and husband, John, and Cynthia (Cyd) and husband, Chi-Dooh (Skip) Li; eight grandchildren, April MacDonald, Thomas Vice, Timothy and Antony Jones, Brian Huotari, and Peter, Joseph and Kara Li; 12 great-grandchildren, Joshua, Tawnie and Allie Sailsbery, Jon MacDonald, Jacob, Joel and Tavia Vice, Charlotte and Christopher Jones, Chandler Huotari, and Ella and Cleo Li; one sister, Floride Jean Sonnenberg; and numerous nieces and nephews in Washington, Texas, California and Indiana.


She was preceded in death by her husband, Aaron Thomas Vice; one son, Joel; and five siblings, Wayne, Mary, Donald, Doris and Max.


A memorial service will be held Saturday, Jan. 31, 2004, at 1 p.m. at the Beachwood Chapel at Warm Beach Senior Community in Stanwood. Those wishing to honor Esther’s memory may contribute to the Warm Beach Senior Community, 20420 Marine Drive, Stanwood, WA. 98292, or to a charity of the donor’s choice. Arrangements are under the direction of Gilbertson Funeral Home, Stanwood.


 


JUAN HERRERA IBARRA


Juan Herrera Ibarra, 73, of Alderwood went to be with his Lord and Savior Saturday, Dec. 27, 2003, at his home with his loved ones.


He was born June 26, 1930 in Tornillo, Texas, to Maria Herrera and Jose Ibarra. He spent his childhood in Texas helping his family pick cotton. At the age of 18, he migrated to the Alderwood Valley and worked as a farm worker and then a sheepherder for Martinez farms. He met and then married Maria San Juana Ibarra in Sabinas, Coahuila, Mexico on April 25, 1964. Later they were sealed in the LDS Provo Temple on April 5, 1979 in Utah. They lived in Texas for a few months after they were married and then moved to Alderwood. He worked for Hull Farms in Alderwood as a farm laborer for 13 years. He worked at Independent Foods Incorporated in Alderwood for 5 years, and then worked as a custodian at the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints until he retired in 1998.


He enjoyed working as a custodian and helping many people in the church. He loved camping with his family. He was baptized as a member of the LDS Church at the age of 17 while living in Texas. He was an active member in the LDS Church in Alderwood. He held many different callings of service in the church. He was always willing to help his fellow men in any way he could.


He is survived by his wife, Juana Ibarra; seven children, Luis and Cecilia Ibarra of Moxee, Sandra and Noe Rubulcava of Zillah, Oscar and Wendy Ibarra of Granger, J. Nicolas and Marlene Ibarra of Yakima, Steven and Samira Ibarra of Orem, Utah, John and Maleesa Ibarra of Indianapolis, Ind., and Mary Ibarra of Alderwood; 14 grandchildren; and three sisters, Carmen Castillo and Enriqueta Cruz, both of El Paso, Texas, and Manuela Lopez of Caseta, Mexico.


He was preceded in death by his parents; his sister, Guadalupe Robles; and two brothers, Lorenzo Ibarra and Ramon Ibarra.


Visitation will be held Friday, Jan. 2, 2004, from noon to 8 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood and Saturday, Jan. 3, 2004, from 8:30 a.m. until time of service at 10 a.m. at the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on Lincoln Avenue, Alderwood, with burial to follow at Valley Memorial Gardens. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to Juana Ibarra at any Banner Bank. 


 


MAXINE MURPHY


Maxine “Max” Murphy, 67, of Hayden, Idaho was called by her Lord and Savior Sunday, Dec. 28, 2003. She passed peacefully in her home with her family.


Maxine was born April 28, 1936 in Polson, Mont. She grew up on the family farm near Polson with her brother and six sisters. She attended Pablo Elementary School in Montana and graduated from high school in Ronan, Mont. It was in Ronan that she met and married Donald J. Murphy, her husband of 49 years. Together they raised five children as they traveled and worked throughout the Northwest. They had made their home in Hayden for the last four years. Though Maxine worked at many things in her life, she most enjoyed working with developmentally disabled children and adults both in the public schools and with T.E.S.H. in North Idaho.


Maxine had a kind spirit and was always willing to help those in need. Her primary devotion was to love and care for her family. She loved to spend time with her 10 grandchildren and one great-grandchild. She was a gentle person, quick with a laugh and a hug. 


She delighted in attending Grace Bible Church with the fellowship the church provided. She enjoyed gardening, sewing and traveling to Montana to visit her mother and sisters. She will be forever remembered as a loving wife, mother, grandmother, daughter and sister. She leaves behind a loving family who will miss her always.


She is survived by her husband, Don Murphy; two sons, David and Shannon; three daughters, Debbie, Carrie and Leslie; her mother, Adella Butt; one brother; six sisters; 10 grandchildren and one great-grandchild.


A memorial service will be held Saturday, Jan. 3, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Yates Funeral Home, Hayden Chapel. A reception will follow at the Yates Hayden Chapel’s Gathering Center. Memorial donations may be made to Hospice of North Idaho, 9493 North Government Way, Hayden, Idaho, 83835. Please visit Maxine’s memorial and sign the online guest book at 
www.yatesfuneralhomes.com
.


 
  






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





