


Forum


 


Date Published to Web: 6/2/2003




1-Column


Car show


On behalf of the Classic Knights Car Club and the Grandview Chamber of Commerce, we would like to thank everyone who in any way helped to make the Classic Knights car show such a success this past Saturday.


Many thanks to all those who sponsored trophies, to all the businesses who so generously donated items for both the "goody bags" and the door prizes, and a special thanks to Mr. Closner's Grandview High School class for filling the bags.


We'd also like to thank the Lower Valley communities for all their support, and the Alderwood Daily News, Grandview Herald and Prosser Record Bulletin for their excellent promotional stories.


To all the participants, thanks for bringing your beautiful vehicles and we hope you enjoyed yourself enough to return next year.


/s/ Lucy and Merv Dykstra, Grandview


 


Will they be remembered?


This past weekend is the first in 56 years I have decorated graves of family and friends without my mom along to share memories as we go about our yearly journey. Each year the numbers have grown, more cemeteries to visit, as well.


I am a baby boomer, being born after World War II, the oldest of my cousins. I still have my mom, but she is very ill, so was unable to go for the first time in 74 years.


We are fortunate that we each have flowers in our yards, so each bouquet is filled with color and love; as well as memories of each and every person who has touched our lives.


Saturday, my husband, daughter and I went out to put flags on the graves of veterans with other volunteers, then we were treated to breakfast by the Ladies Auxiliary of the VFW. What a sight to see, so many volunteers, most with touches of gray and white hair, doing this in remembrance of all those heroes who served our country. It made me think about the generations who are in their 30's, 40's, and all the children even younger. Will they be devoted, committed and carry on the traditions of Memorial Day that I grew up learning the importance of: respect, compassion and sharing?


Monday evening, we removed all the flags, put them away until next year, but remember those who have fought and died for our freedoms. I know that as long as I am alive I will continue to decorate the final resting place of all those that I can, and hope that my family will continue the tradition.


/s/ Carol Stone, Alderwood


 


Equestrian
fund-raiser


The Back Country Horsemen of Washington would like to thank all the businesses that donated items for our fund-raiser May 14-16:


Mid-Valley Chrysler, Outback Steakhouse, Apex Cellars, Les Schwab, RDO Farm Equipment, Harold's Mower Repair, Hall's Chevrolet, Catalina's Hair Care, Food Pavillion, Rite-Aide, Aqua Tropics, Prosser Food Depot, Tom Denchel Ford, Catch Pen, Bleyhl's Farm Service, Horse Heaven Hills, Old Country Buffet, Russell Chism, Big R Store, Jumpstart Espresso, I-Hop Restaurant, M&E Grain, Desert Eagle Ranch, Chukker Cherries, Dale Beck Jewelery, Welco Farm Supply and several silent donors.


It's much appreciated.


/s/ Marti Chism, Alderwood


 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





