
Obituaries
 
Date Published to Web: 4/23/2004

CLIFFORD LEROY RETZER
CLIFFORD LEROY RETZER
Clifford L. Retzer, 69, of Lynnwood passed away Monday, Nov. 10, 2003, from his comforting, loving wife, Carol’s arms into Jesus’ outstretched, welcoming arms at their home in Lynnwood. He had suffered a debilitating stroke two years earlier, on Nov. 11, 2001.  He was able to return home for Carol to care for him and those two years were a precious “bonus time” sent directly from God.
He was born Jan. 27, 1935, at Ashley, N.D. to Gustav and Rose (Buchholz) Retzer.  The family moved to the Yakima Valley in 1938 and settled in Granger. Cliff received his education in Granger, graduating with the Class of 1954 and continued his education at Perry Institute after serving in the U.S. Army. He was a Korean War Veteran. Cliff and Carol Rose Price were married July 22, 1960 in Alderwood. They lived in Yakima the first year and relocated to Fairbanks, Alaska, where he was associated with Interior Airways and Gene’s Auto, returning to Alderwood in 1966. He was employed by Carnation Company until its closure in 1986. He then became an employee of Darigold in Seattle. He retired as foreman for Darigold in Seattle and Issaquah in 1997.
 He and his Boxer dog, Lexi, took long walks daily and were well acquainted within a 10-mile radius of home. Lexi went everywhere with him in the pickup and sat right by his side in the hospital’s ICU. The Retzers owned Boxers for more than 35 years, so each one was well known in the community.  
Clifford is survived by his wife, Carol, of Lynnwood; one son, Clifford L. Jr. “Skip” (Tina); one daughter, Stefanie (Leonard) Cox; four delightful granddaughters, Amanda, Nicole, Kelli Retzer and Gabrielle Caprice Cox; sister and brother-in-law, Ralph and Bernice Fennewald of Yakima; two brothers, Marvin (Reta) of Zillah and Melvin (Cathy) of California; three sisters-in-law, Peggy Yearout (Paul “Tex”) of Yakima, Frances Stephens of Spokane and Winifred Price of Seattle; and many nieces and nephews. Special long-time friends and Carol’s cousins kept in constant encouraging contact with him, bolstering Cliff and Carol’s spirits. He is also survived by special friends Walter and Ruth vanWyk, Jerry and Marilyn O’Connor and Leon and Gail Hedrick; and cousins, Jack and Don Linderman, Ron and Gloria Judd and Harriet Berg.
He was preceded in death by his parents; mother-in-law, Lily Dixon; sisters and brother-in-laws, Ed and Ella June, Mel and Irene Fairbanks, and George and Don Dixon; two nephews, E.B. “Bud” June and James Tunison; a grand-nephew, Keith June; and the beloved Lexi.
Cliff is remembered for his ever-present bright smile, genuinely congenial personality and the sight of him driving his faithful ’48 Chev pickup with a Boxer dog accompanying him in the front seat.
Cliff loved his Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, family, friends, attending Church, visiting and enjoying good food. So we will do just that with those that care to join us attending the regular Sunday services April 25, 2004, at 10:30 a.m. at the Alderwood Presbyterian Church, 16th and Grant. Graveside services will be Sunday, April 25, 2004, at 1 p.m. at Outlook Cemetery with Rev. Katy Haney of the Alderwood Presbyterian Church officiating. We’ll have some good food and enjoy each other’s company at Snipes Mountain Restaurant, at 2 p.m., after the graveside service.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


