


Obituaries


 


Date Published to Web: 11/17/2004




LORNA RUTH (WADDELL) GRAF


LORNA RUTH (WADDELL) GRAF


Lorna Ruth (Waddell) Graf, 48, of Yakima died Monday, Nov. 15, 2004, at Crescent Convalescent Center, Yakima.


She was born in Alderwood on July 6, 1956, to Loren Paul Waddell Sr. and Louella “Irene” (Pilcher) Waddell. She graduated from Alderwood High School in 1974 and was on the Dean’s list at Eastern Washington University.


Lorna is survived by her daughter, Laural Graf; and siblings, Maria (St. Clair) Woodworth, Joyce Korevaar, Loren (Dorothy) Waddell, Leah (Don) Schaneman and Avon Jones.


She was preceded in death by her parents; and son.


Visitation will be held Wednesday, Nov. 17, 2004, from 4 to 8 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. A memorial service is scheduled for Saturday, Nov. 20, 2004, at 1 p.m. at St. Timothy’s Episcopal Church, Yakima. A private family graveside service will be held Thursday, Nov. 18, 2004 in Alderwood. Jones Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements.


Memorials may be made to HDSA NW Chapter, PO Box 33345, Seattle, WA 98133. Please designate it to be used for research.


 


CHARLES EDWARD SHOCKLEY


Charles Edward Shockley, 92, a resident of Mill Creek Point Assisted Living Home in The Dalles, Ore., died Saturday, Nov. 13, 2004.


Mr. Shockley was born in Outlook on Nov. 10, 1912 to George William Shockley and Dora Ellen Partch Shockley.


He began his education at Independence School near the family farm in the Alderwood Valley of eastern Washington. He entered the fifth grade at Outlook School and graduated from high school in 1933, followed by attendance at Hemphill Diesel Engineering School in Tacoma.


In 1936 Mr. Shockley married Doris Lorraine Hill and began his career as an auto mechanic and owner of a service station in Sumner. During World War II he worked for Boeing Aircraft. In 1944, he and his family moved to Tacoma, where he worked as a mechanic servicing trucks for Meadowsweet Dairy, Inc. He married Viola (Hermann) Dickson in 1961.


He is survived by his daughters, Deanna Lee Meyers of Everett, Carol Jean Strom and husband, (Howard) of Othello, Peggy Ann Adamich (Edward) of Port Angeles; eight grandchildren; nine great-grandchildren; and one great-great-grandson.


He was preceded in death by his wife Viola; his brothers Claude and Harry Shockley; and one grandson.


Private family graveside services were held in The Dalles, Ore. Spencer Libby and Powell Funeral Home of The Dalles Ore., was in charge of arrangements.


Memorials may be made to “Make A Wish Foundation” or the charity of your choice.


 


MARGARET MAY BOLIN EDES


Margaret Edes, 90, of Alderwood went to be with her Lord Monday, Nov. 15, 2004, at Hillcrest Manor Nursing Home.


Margaret was born in Nampa, Idaho. She graduated from Nampa High School and attended Northwest Nazarene College. During World War II she worked in civil service in California. In 1943 she married Wesley Edes in Lamberton, Minn. She has resided in Alderwood since 1966.


She was a dedicated wife of 61 years and loving mother. Margaret was a member of the Church of Nazarene and served as church treasurer many years. She loved to play the piano and sing hymns. She enjoyed kittens, reading, The Art Linkletter Show and Lawrence Welk. Margaret most enjoyed giving loving, nurturing care to her grandchildren.


Margaret is survived by her husband, Wesley; son, Gordon and wife Audrey, of Alderwood; daughter, Carolyn (Edes) Larson and husband, Ernie, of Grandview. She is also survived by two foster children, Teana (Rector) Vannieuwenhuizen of Granger and Allen Carpenter of Vancouver; 10 grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.


A memorial service will be held in her honor Friday, Nov. 19, 2004, at 2 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home in Alderwood.


In remembrance of Margaret’s generous spirit, her family asks that you make a donation in her honor to The Gideon’s International, PO Box 1225, Alderwood, WA 98944.


 


RUTH MARIE (KRON) CULP HUNTER


Our dear Ruth Marie (Kron) Culp Hunter, 78, of Yakima left us to join our Lord Jesus on Tuesday, Nov. 16, 2004, after her battle with cancer. Ruth was born to Ernest R. and Lizzie Kron on March 19, 1926 in Loup City, Neb. A twin sister, Ruby Mae died as a two-year-old. The family moved to Richland in 1934. Ruth graduated from Richland High School when Hanford closed school in early 1943.


She married a Richland friend, Donald Culp, who served in the Navy in 1943. They were married for just two short weeks when his ship was one of three lost in a typhoon at sea.


She later met and married Ralph Wilbur Hunter of California on Nov. 8, 1946, and when their first child, Ruby Marie was just six-weeks-old they moved back to a farm in Prosser. Two other children, Steven Ralph and Bruce Lee blessed their marriage.


Her life was devoted to family and friends alike. She loved helping others and enjoyed attending all the sporting events with Ralph throughout the many years both sons played football, baseball, basketball or softball. She herself loved bowling and did so until becoming ill in June of this year. She worked the farm alongside Ralph and also as a school cook in Prosser.


Ruth is survived by her family, daughter, Ruby Bruns (Rod) of Yakima; son, Steven Hunter (Sandy) of Hermiston, Ore.; and son Bruce Hunter of Yakima; her grandchildren Rhonda Hutton and David of Yakima, Robyn Neumeyer of Olympia, Tyler and Trevor Hunter of Yakima; and her precious great-granddaughter Morgan Hutton, also of Yakima. She is also survived by her brothers and sisters, Carl and Anna Kron, Ed and Irene, Anna Hunter, Velma (Culp) Scott; and numerous nieces and nephews and friends.


She was preceded in death by both parents, E.T. and Lizzie Kron; husbands, Donald Culp and Ralph Hunter, her twin Ruby Mae and sister Hazel Books, as well as other loved Hunter and Kron family members.


Funeral services will be held Monday, Nov. 22, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood with burial to follow at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood. In lieu of flowers those wishing to honor her memory may contribute to the Yakima Memorial Hospice or the Immanuel Lutheran Church.






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





