


Torch contends he has no problem with DSN


Story by: John Panni


Date Published to Web: 3/23/2003


"The animosity is between me and Bob Story (Alderwood Daily News managing editor)," said Alderwood City Councilman John Torch.
   Torch used that statement this morning (Tuesday) to clarify what he said is a misconception that the Alderwood City councilman has issues with the Alderwood Daily News.
   "The reporters that are there at the newspaper, I have a lot of respect for," said Torch. "I think that Mr. Story is let run amuck with his editorials."
   Torch said that he doesn't have a problem with the local newspaper. Torch said he has always been treated fairly by the reporting staff. Torch said for a long time he has had problems with Story and former Alderwood Daily News Publisher Tom Lanctot. Torch said based on the "frustrating" personal history he has with Story and Lanctot, it has led to the animosity he feels towards them today.
   In regards to a line in an email that was read aloud at Monday night's Alderwood City Council meeting regarding the Alderwood Daily News not printing the truth, Torch replied that he bases that remark on his own research.
   Torch said that Story in his editorials lets his vendettas be known. Torch said as an individual he has the right to let known his personal gripes.
   "I can have my personal feelings," said Torch.
   Torch said if Story can speak for the community in his editorials then why can't he speak for the community from his Council seat.
   As far as letting his personal feelings factor into the controversy surrounding the rejection of the newspaper's bid to publish legal notices, Torch said he wants to make sure the city is spending its money appropriately. Torch said he is only one vote and the rest of the Council will side as they see accordingly.
   "The city gains by a fair bidding process," said Torch. "It (the legal bids) will prove out one way or another."
   






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





