
Obituaries
 
Date Published to Web: 9/3/2004

JOHN “JACK” MARSHALL FARMER
JOHN “JACK” MARSHALL FARMER
John “Jack” Marshall Farmer, 79, of Blackfoot, beloved husband, father, grandfather, and great-grandfather passed away from this life Sept. 1, 2004, at his home in Blackfoot, Idaho, surrounded by loving family. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him for his wonderful sense of humor and his love of living.
John was born April 30, 1925 to Jess Crosby Farmer and Ester Daphna Marshall Farmer in Deaver, Wyo.
He married Dorothy Wold Aug. 27, 1946 in the Salt Lake Temple and they became the parents of seven children, who gave them 35 grandchildren and 16 great-grandchildren.
John was raised on a farm in the little town of Deaver located in northwestern Wyoming where he attended grade school and high school. He graduated from the University of Wyoming with a Bachelor of Science degree in agriculture. He was a member of Alpha Zeta, the National Agriculture Honorary Society and was also a member of Lambda Delta Sigma while attending the University of Wyoming.
He worked in the field of agriculture all his life and was transferred to Blackfoot, Idaho in 1968 by the American Oil Company. He made Blackfoot his home for the remainder of his life. He taught vocational agriculture at Idaho State University for several years.
He enjoyed gardening and became a Master Gardener. He particularly enjoyed growing roses and entered them in the Eastern Idaho State Fair, taking ribbons on them.  He loved tinkering is his shop, where he built machinery and was always looking for new ways to do old things.
He was an active lifetime member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, where he held numerous positions.  He and Dorothy enjoyed serving two missions for the church, first in West Virginia and the second in Florida.
What he enjoyed most and took the greatest pride in was the wonderful family he was blessed with.  He loved each of them dearly and they loved him in return.  He has left them a great legacy of love.
He is survived by his wife, Dorothy of Blackfoot, Idaho; four sons, Mike (Linda) Farmer of Alderwood, John (Marilyn) Farmer of Centerville, Utah, David (Pam) Farmer of Hemet, Calif., Gary (Jolene) Farmer of Blackfoot, Idaho; three daughters, Debbie (Jim) McFarland of Orem, Utah, Jennifer (Dan) Crites of Blackfoot, Idaho, Janette (Walter) Johnson of Mesa, Ariz.; 33 grandchildren and 15 great-grandchildren; one brother, Wayne (Isabel) Farmer of Quincy; and two sisters, Ilene (Phil) Whaley of Conrad, Mont. and Ruth Krueger of Prosser.
He was preceded in death by his parents; two grandchildren; and one stillborn great-grandchild.
Funeral services will be held Saturday, Sept. 4, 2004, at 3 p.m. at Blackfoot 2nd Ward LDS Chapel, 660 Teton Drive, Blackfoot, Idaho.  The family will meet with friends and relatives from 7 to 9 p.m. Friday, Sept. 3, 2004 at Hawker Funeral Home and again for one hour prior to services at the church.
Interment will be in Riverside-Thomas Cemetery.
The family would like to thank the Aspen Home Health and Hospice and Dr. Jeffrey Liles for their loving care.
 
HERMINIA V. MENDOZA
Herminia V. Mendoza, 68, of Alderwood passed away Tuesday, Aug. 31, 2004, at Yakima Regional Hospital.
Herminia was born Feb. 5, 1936 in The Philippines, daughter of Catalina Santos and Patrocinio Villanueva. Herminia received her education in The Philippines. On Sept. 12, 1962 she married Leonardo Mendoza in The Philippines. In 1988 the Mendoza family moved to Alderwood, where Herminia worked in housekeeping at Hillcrest Manor.
She enjoyed traveling, shopping, cooking and watching Filipino movies.
Herminia is survived by her husband, Leonardo Mendoza of Alderwood; one son, Florencio Mendoza and wife, Jocelyn, of Union Gap; one daughter, Maria Lisa Mendoza and husband, Wilfredo, of The Philippines; her mother, Catalina Sutton of Alderwood; three grandchildren; two sisters, Erlinda Soliman and Helen Gonzalez, both of Alderwood; and Thomas Sutton of Grandview; and a niece, Roma Joana Mendoza of Spokane.
She was preceded in death by her father.
Memorial Mass will be held Saturday, Sept. 4, 2004, at 10 a.m. at St. Joseph Catholic Church in Alderwood. Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood, is in charge of arrangements.  


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


