


Working Stiff


Story by: John Panni


Date Published to Web: 1/21/2002


GRANDVIEW - Every family needs a father figure and the father figure for the Grandview High School boys basketball program is head coach Scott Parrish.
   But Parrish, 36, will be the first to tell you none of the successes he has had as head coach of one of the most successful basketball programs in the state would be possible without those surrounding him.
   The one reason why Parrish might take such a pride with his family of players and the way they represent Grandview is he understands what it is to be a Greyhound.
   A native of Grandview, Parrish played basketball for the Greyhounds, a three-year player on varsity. Parrish graduated from Grandview High School in 1986, going on to Big Bend Community College in Moses Lake to play two years of basketball. In 1991, Parrish graduated from Eastern Washington University with a Bachelor's degree in education. Parrish now teaches a variety of social science classes at Grandview High School, in addition to a weight training course.
   Parrish returned home from college and became engaged to his wife, Tammy, who is the daughter of long-time Grandview High School teacher Frank Durado. A job opened up at Grandview Middle School in 1991, where he stayed for three years before heading to the high school. At the same time, Parrish's wife was hired in the Prosser School District.
   Parrish and his wife have three children-two daughters, Payton, 9, Teagan, 6, and one son, Treyton, 2.
   One of the reasons why Parrish became a teacher was his father-in-law, who motivated him to get into teaching.
   "It is something I always wanted to do," he added. "I have never really had any other aspirations."
   But perhaps the most guiding factor as to why Parrish wanted to become a teacher is that he wanted to be a coach.
   "I knew I wanted to get into coaching. I just wanted to stay around the game," said Parrish. "I have kind of a passion for the game of basketball."
   This is the sixth year Parrish has been the head coach of the Greyhound boys hoop program. Prior to taking over the head coaching job, Parrish spent two years as the junior varsity coach. In his six years as head coach, Parrish has amassed an impressive record of 119 wins and 25 losses. In his first four years as head coach, the Greyhounds were in the 2A ranks, where Parrish ended up with a record of 95 wins and 13 losses. In his first year as head coach, Grandview went 20-7, placing fifth at the 2A State basketball tournament. The Greyhounds followed up with fourth and third place finishes at the 2A State basketball tournaments. Parrish's shining moment as a coach came three seasons ago when Grandview made a remarkable 27-0 run, defeating Chelan for the 2A State title at the Yakima SunDome. Parrish said that was a rewarding moment as a coach because it was the fourth year he had spent with a core of players who were finishing their prep careers under him.
   The following season the Greyhounds were bumped up to the 3A Mid-Valley League, where he accumulated a respectable 16-9 record before losing in the playoffs. Of those nine losses last season, one was in overtime to 2A Kiona-Benton. Another two losses were to West Valley and the Greyhounds ended up dropping three games apiece to Hanford and Selah. This year, the Greyhounds have an 8-3 overall record.
   Arguably, one of the big reasons for the Greyhounds' success on the basketball court could be the attitude Parrish and his coaching staff instills in their players.
   "We want to obviously be a good basketball team," said Parrish. "I am really big on getting kids to put forth a good effort. I want them to do it the best they can."
   Parrish said his mother always taught him if you are to do something, do it right the first time, which is what he tries to instill in his players.
   One thing Parrish and his staff always tells their players is whether on or off the court they are representing their school, families, friends and the community, so always do their best.
   Another reason the Greyhounds could be doing so well is the players have bought into his staff's stressing of being one and never putting individual statistics before the team.
   "We are real big on getting the kids to understand what their role is," said Parrish. "We have kids that are not selfish. It is just a team effort."
   Parrish said the players also understand what it takes to be successful. Each day, he post the team's plans for the day at different spots at the high school. There is also a thought of the day read at the start of each day of school that players need to have memorized by the time practice comes around. If the players don't know the thought of the day, they end up running.
   Parrish said he wouldn't be able to do what he does as head coach without his staff, which includes junior varsity coach Roy Brownlee, C-squad coach Roy Martinez and freshman coach Zane Wells.
   While one of his most trusted advisors is his assistant coach, Brownlee, it is something former Greyhound head coach Mike Schuette, who coached the Greyhounds to two State titles, told him when he was first hired that sticks with Parrish still today.
   "He said, your first year you work as hard as you can and it will take them at least 10 years to get rid of you," he laughed. "I at least have four more years."
   Parrish takes a special pride in being a Greyhound, something he hopes his players will always carry with them.
   Parrish also added it is special to put on the uniform of a Greyhound basketball player.
   "I wore the uniform when I was coming through," said Parrish. "I tell (my) players, take a lot of pride in (being a Greyhound), especially when they put that jersey on."
   . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





