


Forum


 


Date Published to Web: 2/25/2002




1-Column


No choice now but to vote yes


I can't imagine Alderwood without a library. It is a vital resource in our community that offers a myriad of knowledge, entertainment and activities to people of all ages. I anticipate if we annex into the regional system we will ultimately be very pleased with the growth and positive changes that will make our library an even better asset to our city.


But how did we get in this predicament? Where are our priorities?


Instead of setting aside the yearly cost of the library when there was a surplus, the City Council spent funds on the gazebo and landscaping, the Sixth Street and Edison Avenue plaque to drive our cars over, the public bathrooms, the pathway leading part way around the park and several statues. These are all nice additions, but certainly far less important to our community than a library.


The City Council surely knows that no one wants our library to close, so how can it be that they have no back-up plan, and no emergency funds are available to rescue the library should this annexation vote fail?


If we want to keep our library, they have left us no choice but to vote yes. But we will have a choice at the next City Council election, and I for one will remember who put us in this position. I hope you will too.


/s/ Myrtis J. Lang, Alderwood


 


Library support


The Alderwood library is important to me because I can re-write school assignments on the computers. I can also look things up on the internet, which offers a world of information at my fingertips.


But that's not all...there's also a world to discover concealed under the covers of thousands of books.


Reading has become one of my most favorite interests. At the Alderwood library, one can sit and read for hours and not be disturbed. The people who work there are friendly and helpful. These workers seem to enjoy helping anyone find a book that is interesting, good and fun to read.


/s/ Robert Ruppert, fifth grader, Chief Kamiakin Elementary School


 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





