
Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 6/11/2002

1-Column
Helicopter pilot uninjured in crash
PROSSER - 56-year-old George P. LeLoup avoided injury when his helicopter crashed in a cherry orchard near Prosser this past Tuesday evening.
According to Benton County Sheriff's Captain Charles Kissler, LeLoup was drying a cherry crop with his helicopter near North Hinzerling and McReadie roads at about 6:40 p.m. Tuesday. Kissler said the helicopter's rotor struck a power line.
"The pilot was able to land the craft in the orchard," said Kissler.
The power line that the helicopter's rotor struck was knocked down, though. Several trees and the helicopter, itself, were also heavily damaged.
Kissler said the FAA has been contacted and the federal agency will be conducting a formal investigation.
The helicopter piloted by the British Columbia man is owned by Eric Monson of Selah.
 
Dobson volunteers for Girls Nation event in D.C.
Andy Dobson of Alderwood will serve as a volunteer during the 58th annual session of Girls Nation in Washington, D.C. the week of July 24-31.
Girls Nation is a hands-on government education program that brings together some of the top female high school seniors in America. A total of 96 girls from 48 states participate in the week-long citizenship program.
Dobson will be part of the government staff at Girls Nation.
The American Legion Auxiliary traditionally sponsors the Girls Nation event.
 
Rail painting party set for June 19
Alderwood residents are being invited to leave their mark on the community two Saturdays from now, June 19.
Behind the efforts of Carol Stone, a rail painting party will be held that day. Stone said all community residents are urged to take part in the beautification effort.
Stone explained that in an effort to continue adding color and beauty to the city, the guardrail near the railroad tracks at Central Park will be painted with handprints of all the participants.
Local citizens, young and old alike, are asked to take part. The June 19 event is set for 9 to 11 a.m.
 
Tickets available for annual Hospice benefit auction
Tickets are on sale for the annual Lower Valley Hospice benefit auction, which is scheduled to take place Saturday, Oct. 9, at Navarro's Community Center, 548 S. Sixth St. in Alderwood.
The "Circle of Life"-themed event will begin at 6 p.m. with a silent auction. The live auction will begin at 8 p.m. and doors will close at 10 p.m. Heavy hors d'oeuvres will be served and those in attendance will have a chance to bid on items ranging from different wine packages to a play/dollhouse being built by the Boys Scouts of America.
Tickets for the auction are $25 per person or $40 per couple, and are available through Lower Valley Hospice. For more information call 837-1676.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


