


Death Notices and Obituaries


 


Date Published to Web: 12/29/2003




PAID OBITUARY


DEATH NOTICE


CANDELARIA ALCAZAR-GONZALEZ


Candelaria Alcazar-Gonzalez, 43, of Grandview died Wednesday, Dec. 24, 2003, at Grandview Healthcare Center.


She was born Feb. 2, 1960 in Mexico to Agustin and Irinea (Sotelo) Gonzalez. She received her early education in Mexico. In 1989 she moved to Washington, where she made her home in Alderwood. In January of 1997 she married Genaro Alcazar at the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints in Alderwood. Following their marriage they made their home in Grandview. She worked for Independence Warehouse.


She is survived by her husband, Genaro Alcazar of Grandview; one son, Agustin Gonzalez of Alderwood; one daughter, Cindy Larios and husband, Vicente, of Ohio; one granddaughter; her father, Agustin Gonzalez of Naches; four sisters, Clementina Gonzalez of Mexico, Beatriz Gonzalez and Paula Gonzalez, both of California, and Concha Gonzalez of Naches; and two brothers, Agustin Gonzalez of California and Martin Gonzalez of Mexico.


She was preceded in death by her mother.


Viewing and visitation will be held Monday, Dec. 29, 2003, from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m., with a Rosary to be held at 6 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Tuesday, Dec. 30, 2003, at 10 a.m. at St. Joseph Catholic Church, Alderwood, with burial to follow at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens. Jones Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements.


 


JAMES FORREST MAULDEN


James Forrest Maulden, 85, of Kennewick and a former Grandview resident died Monday, Dec. 22, 2003, at Kennewick General Hospital.


He was born March 2, 1918 in Trout, La., to James L. and Martha Pearl (Nugent) Maulden. Later that year the family moved to the Alderwood Valley and engaged in farming.


After graduating from Toppenish High School in 1936 he attended Washington State College, receiving a Bachelor of Science degree in agriculture-economics in 1941. He was then employed by Safeway as a vegetable and fruit buyer in the Alderwood Valley, Seattle area, and Visalia and San Carlos, Calif.


On Jan. 5, 1942 he married Luvena Arnett of White Salmon and he was drafted into the U.S. Army in September 1942. After finishing Officer Candidate School he was assigned as mess officer for a general hospital in Walla Walla, which was later moved to Medford, Ore. and then to southern England for the duration of WWII. He attained the rank of captain prior to discharge in December 1945.


In February 1946 the family moved to Grandview, and Mr. Maulden was employed by Perham Fruit Corporation. He later became manager of their packing plant and orchards in the Grandview area. He retired in 1981.


Funeral services were held Monday, Dec. 29, 2003, at 11 a.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Grandview, with burial in the Grandview cemetery immediately following. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Shriners Children’s Hospital, PO Box 2472, Spokane, WA 99210-2472 or to a favorite charity.


 


 


PAID OBITUARY


FLORENCE ELLEN OKERSTROM


Florence Ellen Okerstrom, 87, of Grandview died Sunday, Dec. 28, 2003, at Grandview Healthcare, Grandview. 


She was born Jan. 28, 1916 to Augusta and Edna Okerstrom. She lived all of her life in the Alderwood Valley as part of a family that raised cattle and farmed in the Wapato area, raised crops in the Zillah area and ran a jersy dairy in Alderwood.


She enjoyed traveling in her younger years and in later years was very busy volunteering for numerous organizations for which she received many certificates of thanks. She was very active in the Pomona and SunnyValley Granges, serving as secretary/treasurer for close to 30 years for them.
  
She was also involved in the Golden Agers and Alderwood Senior Citizens group. She belonged to numerous card clubs and loved to play pinochle.


She is survived by two nieces, Wanda Clark and husband, Gary, of Tacoma and Donna Feldman of Bothel. She will be greatly missed by her many, many friends.


She was preceded in death by her father, Agusta Okerstrom; her mother Edna; step-father Gus Delmonico; and two brothers, Clinton and Edwin Okerstrom. 


At Mrs. Okerstrom’s request no funeral services will be held. Viewing and visitation will be held Tuesday, Dec. 30, 2003, from 1 until 5 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Alderwood. Internment will be at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood, under the services of Jones Funeral Home.


Gifts in her memory can be made to the American Cancer Society or Alderwood Christian School.


 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





