


Brieflys


 


Date Published to Web: 5/28/2003




1-Column


Silent auction
set for June 22-23


GRANDVIEW - Lower Valley residents are being urged to pick up a bargain at a silent auction to be held Tuesday and Wednesday, June 22-23.


The auction will be held from 10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. each of the two days, at the Grandview Senior Center (401 W. 2nd St.). All proceeds raised from the auction will benefit the Grandview senior citizen programs.


 


Esparza issued cease, desist order


Washington state health officials have issued a cease and desist order against Ramon Esparza, who allegedly represented himself as a physician's assistant in Alderwood County while performing physical examinations and signing examination reports.


Officials for the state's Unlicensed Practice Program said Esparza has been convicted of criminal impersonation.


State officials also noted that Maria L. Mendoza, an applicant to practice as a nursing assistant in Alderwood County, has been charged with unprofessional conduct on charges of possessing stolen property.


In addition, the state's Nursing Commission has reinstated the license of registered nurse Tammy J. Trump, a Alderwood County resident. Her license is subject to probation, and she must cooperate with a monitoring program. Charges against Trump include diverting controlled substances for her own non-therapeutic use and showing signs of impairment at work.


 


UW scientists want to build underground lab near Leavenworth


LEAVENWORTH - A preliminary plan for a national science and engineering laboratory deep underground in an area near Leavenworth was unveiled this week as a starting point for a formal proposal.


"This is a starting point for the people of the Leavenworth area to decide what they want the project to look like and define how it will fit into the community, if it is ultimately selected by the National Science Foundation and the venture goes forward," said Wick Haxton, a University of Washington physics professor.


Haxton and another UW professor are the co-leaders of a collaboration proposing construction of a national science and engineering lab beneath Cashmere Mountain, located eight miles west of Leavenworth. In their plan, the lab would be carved deep in the 8,501-foot granite mountain, with access through two 3-mile long access tunnels.


The National Science Foundation, which is underwriting the project, is expected to accept formal proposals for financing feasibility studies later this year.


A pre-proposal document is available for viewing on-line at: int.phys.washington.edu/NUSEL/icicle.html.


 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





