
Forum
 
Date Published to Web: 6/4/2004

1-Column
Politics
I swore to myself I would never write another letter to the editor. But, I read "Open Mike" in the June 2 issue and couldn't hold back. I, myself, am just like Panni. I vote for the man regardless of the party they are affiliated with, providing they are Republicans. Then, after I go to the polls and cast my vote I kick myself the rest of the year for voting that way.
But the reason I do this is because a friend of mine is a die hard Democrat. He will vote Democrat if they run a yellow dog. I keep trying to tell him that their Democrat yellow dog this time has rabies. But he won't listen. All George Bush needs done is to be wormed. Now, which way would you vote?
Mr. Panni saying Wild Bill Clinton was a good president is going way too far. He had the ability of being a great president, except for his ignorance.
As far as the Florida recount, it saddened me that there were so many weak Democrats that couldn't push the chads out. Next time they should take a Republican to the polls with them. let them push out the chads.
And as far as saying Bill Clinton only made a few mistakes, wow, that makes me think Mike did not get very good grades in mathematics. Giving away secrets to China for campaign financing is a huge mistake. No, not for Clinton, but for our freedom. Mike, we do know what Bill was going to do next. He was going to do whatever was good for him. Not what was good for the American people.
Then Mike stated he would like to see Hillary Clinton as president. If that happens, it will be the first time you have such a close family who would both be president. It may be as interesting as Mike says.
But let's get to Mike's favorite, Doc Hastings. I approached him once about voting for something. Exactly what, I can't remember. I have the Clinton memory virus. But Hastings' response was, I can't do that because the Republican party doesn't want it. That at the time proved he is working for the Republican party, not the constituents.
/s/ Don Padelford, Alderwood
 
Medical care
I want to make known to the Alderwood City Council my heartfelt thanks to the ambulance crew of Dennis Blumer and Ron Price.
I was stricken with a heart attack on the evening of May 14 and needed to be transported to the Yakima Heart Center for a life-saving procedure.
I am recovering and very thankful for the ambulance service that was available to assist in my situation. I strongly urge the council to NOT consider taking this life-saving service away from our fire department. This is a valuable part of our community and is very much needed to provide this form of health care to our citizens.
I wish to thank Dr. Johnson, Donna Evans and the ER staff at Alderwood Community Hospital for their expedient and professional help. I was in the midst of a heart attack and I was properly diagnosed and stabilized for transport to the Heart Center in Yakima, where I underwent a three-stint procedure to restore my heart to good working order. The actions of the ER staff and ambulance crew saved my life.
/s/ Bill Durbin, Alderwood
 
Mayfest
Many thanks to the wonderful volunteers who helped with Mayfest 2004.
Thanks to our sponsors: McDonald's, Burger King, Bob's Drive-In, George and Margaret DeRuyter, Garza's Security, Campos Music, Palateria Nortena, Radio station La Maquina and the Pepsi Corp.
A special thank you to the booth chairmen: Mario and Angela Flores, Mays and Mike Heitstuman, Scorro and Jorge Bazaldua, Ignacio and Nina Ramos, Zenaida and Angel Herrera, Lucy and Fidel Partida Jr., Nuestra Casa, Lino and Hilda Guerra, Mike and Sue Wedam, the Hispanic youth group, and Trina Alvarez and Lucille Cullen.
Thanks to Jose Luis Zesati Jr. for handling the children's races, Jose Luis Zesati Sr. for help with the entertainment, Rick Gastelum for being emcee and DJ, Tony Garibay and his youth group for all their help, Father Alejandro, our wonderful clown, and Rose and Pete Garza and Mariana Zesati for all their help in everything.
Also, thanks to Kerry Turley for help ordering stuff and getting our booths up, and to the musical groups that participated: the Alderwood High School mariachi band and Mr. Jim Sleater, Father Alberto and Azucena Pimentel, Chad Alan Turley, Smmoth da Messenger, Terrel Greg and Commonwealth, Preacha Paul, Los Bagantes, Promesa, Mariachi Caporal, Sandra y Alegria Nortena, Panda Bear Cubs, The Magic Man, and all the singers and dancers from the talent competition, including the judges: Gracie Gomez, Esteban Zambrano and Nick Hernandez.
A big thanks to the Alderwood Daily News for its generous coverage of Mayfest. Also, we appreciate all the donations from parishioners who were so generous with food and money.
It was a wonderful event enjoyed by all!
/s/ Nelda Gastelum, Mayfest coordinator, Alderwood
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


