
Entertainment Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 3/26/2002

1-Column
‘How’s Bayou’in Yakima April 2
YAKIMA - Billed as the Northwest's leader in Cajun music, "How's Bayou" will appear in concert Friday, April 2, in the Great Hall of the Yakima Valley Museum.
The performance is part of the Yakima Folklife Concert Series. Tickets, priced at $16 for adults and $6 for children, will be available at the door of the museum that evening. The April 2 concert will get underway at 7:30 p.m.
"How's Bayou" offers an evening of red hot Cajun music, coupled with the genre of Zydeco and Swamp Pop.
 
Basket show public reception Sunday, April 4
RICHLAND - A public reception to help kick off the Invitational Contemporary Baskets Show will be held at Richland's Allied Arts Association Gallery Sunday, April 4, from 1 to 3 p.m.
The gallery is located at the entrance to Howard Amon Park, 89 Lee Blvd.
The curator of the show is Larry Metcallf, a well known Pacific Northwest artist, designer and craftsman. The exhibition will feature 18 regional and nationally known artists working in traditional basket techniques of twining, plating, coiling, lamination and stitching.
Some of the Northwest artists who will have their work featured in the show include Leon Russell, Jill Nordfors Clark, Sally Metcalf and C.A. Michel. Also, nationally known artists such as Jackie Abrams, Carla Filippelli and Helen Frost Way will present their new visions of old crafts.
Basket lovers from the Lower Alderwood Valley will be able to enjoy the art works in their traditional container forms of baskets, along with more sculptural approaches.
 
NPR journalist coming to Yakima
YAKIMA - Nationally renowned broadcast journalist Susan Stamberg will discuss the importance as such legendary artists as Ernest Hemingway, Elia Kazan and Georgia O'Keefe, when she comes to Yakima in April.
Stamberg, a special correspondent for National Public Radio, will be the guest speaker in the Yakima Town Hall lecture series to be held Wednesday, April 14, at 11 a.m. at the Capitol Theatre.
Stamberg, who has been awarded every major honor in broadcasting, serves as the guest host of National Public Radio's Morning Edition, Weekend Edition Saturday and the Weekly Edition, specializing in cultural issues.
To purchase Town Hall tickets call Linda Linneweh at (509) 966-3006.
 
Woodinville wineries host tasting event
Woodinville - The annual "Passport to Woodinville" will be held April 3 and 4 in Woodinville Wine Country in Western Washington.
The weekend will include tours of the area's 14 wineries from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., of which many are not normally open to the public.
Passports to attend the event are $25, giving ticket holders entrance admission, a commemorative glass and a keepsake passport filled with wine labels.
To purchase passports call (425) 424-2902. For more information about the April wine tasting tours  visit woodinvillewinecountry.com.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


