
Entertainment Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 8/13/2004

1-Column
Ice cream social open to the public
TOPPENISH - To celebrate its official name change to Heritage University, college officials are inviting the public to attend an open house/ice cream social on Thursday, Aug. 19, from 3 to 6 p.m.
The event will take place on Heritage's Toppenish campus.
Along with the ice cream social, the open house will feature student and faculty displays which highlight some of the university's academic programs.
 
Grape stomping championshipset for Sept. 18-19
TURNER, ORE. - Turn your feet purple and squish your way to victory.
Willamette Valley Vineyards in Turner, Ore. is hosting the Oregon Grape Stomping Championship and annual Harvest Celebration on Saturday and Sunday, Sept. 18-19. Activities will be held from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. both days.
Participants are invited to enter the two-person team competition, or just bring a blanket to sit back and enjoy the festivities as a spectator. There is a $5 fee per team, per heat. Winners will receive an all-expense paid trip and the right to represent Oregon at the World Championship Grape Stomp in Santa Rosa, Calif.
To register to compete in the grape stomping contest, call (503) 588-9463 or 1-800-344-9463.
Visitors are invited to enjoy the fun Sept. 18-19 with a variety of great foods from Willaby's Catering and award-winning wines from Willamette Valley. The $5 admission charge includes the price of a Riedel wine glass and tasting. Those under the age of 21 will be admitted free. The two-day event is being billed as a family affair.
Live music for dancing and stomping will be provided by J.T. & The Tourists.
Willamette Valley Vineyardsis located on Enchanted Way, one mile south of exit 248 off I-5, just south of Salem.
 
Dirt track racing Friday, Aug. 20
YAKIMA - Friday, Aug. 20, Central Washington State Fair Raceway in Yakima will host the championship race of the Washington Economy Sprint Car Organization.
Also that night, the Hornets will be running. Hornet racers continue to earn the reputation as being the most exciting racers in the Valley, as they battle four and five-wide on the dirt oval.
In addition, modified drivers will compete that Friday.
The Friday, Aug. 20, event will feature free checkered flags for the kids in attendance, who will be encouraged to get their favorite drivers to sign them.
 
Western art show features new artists
TOPPENISH - Ten new artists will be at this year's Toppenish Western Art Show, Aug. 20-22, in Railroad Park.
Those in attendance will have a chance to interact and observe the artists in action. There is no charge to attend.
Show hours will be from noon to 6 p.m. on Friday, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturday and from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Sunday.
A total of 36 artists have signed up to offer fine art subjects of wildlife, western and Native American art in pastels, acrylics, oils, water color, ink, sculptures, pottery, metals and photography.
Kids 'n Art, a special free event for youngsters, will begin at 10 a.m. on Saturday. Artist Jerry Nighthawk Raven of the Tri-Cities will teach children the techniques for using pastels and creating a portrait of a Native American. Class size is limited on a first come, first serve basis.
New this year will be a "Showcase of Student Art," sponsored by a grant from Legends Casino. It will feature works by young artists in the Central Yakima Valley.
The three-day event also includes a quick draw contest at 4 p.m. on Saturday, an auction of quick draw paintings at 5 p.m. Saturday and a Lion's Club steak feed following at 6:30 p.m.
 
Soap box derby fun planned in Grandview
GRANDVIEW - The fourth annual Grandview Soap Box Derby will be held Saturday, Sept. 11, on South Euclid Street near Dykstra Park.
Reigstration of participants is now underway at the Grandview Parks and Recreation Department (303 W. Wine Country Rd.).
This year's soap box derby will offer four divisions of competition—youth, adult, corporate wheels and the Celebrity 500, open to city and county officials. Cash prizes will be awarded to the top finishers in the adult division. Top finishers in the youth division will receive medals and savings bonds.
The sign-up fees are set at $15 for youths ages 7 to 14 and $30 for all other competitors. The fees include the cost of a derby t-shirt. A parent signature is required at the time of registration for participants under the age of 18. The sign-up deadline is Wednesday, Sept. 1. Late registrations will not be accepted.
 
Sultana Dancers performance set for this Saturday
TOPPENISH - The Fraternal Order of Eagles lodge in Toppenish will present a performance by the Sultana Dancers this Saturday, Aug. 14.
Described as mystical, exotic and alluring, the dancers will take to the stage at 9 p.m.
Preceding Saturday night's show, the Toppenish lodge will host a chicken fried dinner, from 6 to 8 p.m., at a cost of $6 per person.
Saturday's show is open to all Eagles members and their guests.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


