
REC board approves use of funds to provide certified nurse training
Story by: Ellie Olmsen
Date Published to Web: 8/3/2003
Those people, young and old alike, who are interested in taking part in training to become a certified nurses assistant (CNA) will soon have another place to turn.   Last week, the Lower Alderwood Valley Rural Enterprise Community (REC) board voted to allow Alderwood Community Hospital to spend $3,500 of the $11,500 originally granted to the organization for use in providing CNA training. The proposal was approved pending a formal written request by the hospital.   The informal request for the use of the funds was made during a report by Sandra Linde, who is in charge of organizing and conducting health care seminars through the local hospital. These seminars were what the original grant from the REC board was intended to be used for.   Linde noted that most recently the hospital hosted three health care seminars, each looking at a different health care career. She said they held seminars on what it takes to be an obstetrics nurse, a laboratory technician and to work in respiratory care. Linde said all of the seminars were fairly well attended, especially the respiratory care seminar, which had 14 people in attendance.   Linde said the people taking advantage of the seminars are mostly students from Alderwood High School, although several students from Grandview High School did attend, as well as several adults.   According to Linde, when the proposal for the seminars was first brought to the REC board it was the hospital's intent to create seven different seminars, focusing on seven careers. Instead, she said they have been able to create 12 different career kits. Linde said she plans on dropping off copies of the kits at both the local high school and middle school.   Linde said she is also planning on offering a high school senior project day at the hospital. She said the event would serve as a day where those students interested in pursing a career in health care could come to the hospital and learn more about the senior projects and the health care careers that are available for students to study for their projects.   Linde said the $3,500 she is requesting would be used to offer CNA training at the hospital, and is money that she has been able to save from the original $11,500 that was granted by the REC board. She said the money would be well used, if it was utilized to conduct at least one CNA class before the end of the year, which is when all REC funds have to be spent.


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


