
Obituaries
 
Date Published to Web: 11/1/2004

NORA GONZALEZ
NORA GONZALEZ
Nora “Marlen” Gonzalez, 11, of Alderwood died Thursday, Oct. 28, 2004, at Harborview Medical Center in Seattle.
She was born on Oct. 22, 1993 in Prosser, the daughter of Nora (Salinas) and Oscar Gonzalez. She was currently attending fifth grade at Pioneer School in Alderwood.  
She is survived by her parents, Oscar and Nora Gonzalez of Alderwood; one brother, Oscar Gonzalez Jr.; two sisters, Leslie Brighit Gonzalez and Ichnic Maria Gonzalez, all of Alderwood; her grandparents, Maria Guajardo of Texas, Elizar Gonzalez of Mattawa, Francisco and Maria B. Salinas of Mexico; and aunts, uncles and cousins.  
Viewing and visitation will be held Monday, Nov. 1, 2004, from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. with a Rosary to be recited at 6 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood.  Mass of Christian Burial will be held Tuesday, Nov. 2, 2004, at 10 a.m. at St. Joseph Catholic Church, Alderwood. Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood, is in charge of arrangements.
 
CECILO CRUZ
Cecilo Cruz, 95, of Alderwood passed away Wednesday, Oct. 27, 2004, in Alderwood.
Mr. Cruz was born Nov. 22, 1908 at Palafox, Texas to Martinez and Enriqueta (Hernandez) Cruz. He received his early education in Palafox. He migrated from Texas in 1951 and worked as a farm laborer, and later as foreman of Broadview Farms until he retired at the age of 65.
Cecilo was a loving father, grandpa and great-grandpa and enjoyed being with the children. He also enjoyed woodwork, yard work and just being outdoors.
He will always be missed and in the hearts of his three daughters, Irma Martinez of Alderwood, Sandy Cavagnaro of Seattle and Gracie Bravo of Grandview; his three sons, Aurtio Cruz and wife, Maria, of Grandview, Joe Cecil Cruz of Prosser and John Cruz of Alderwood. He is also survived by 18 grandchildren, 19 great-grandchildren and seven great-great-grandchildren.
Viewing for Mr. Cruz will be held Monday, Nov. 1, 2004, from 4 to 8 p.m.
with a Rosary to be recited at 7 p.m. at Valley Hills Funeral Home Chapel, corner of North Ave. and 11th Street, Alderwood. Viewing will also be held Tuesday, Nov. 2, 2004 from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. with a speaker, Glen Steffin, at l p.m. Graveside funeral services will follow at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood, at 2 p.m. Valley Hills Funeral Home is entrusted with arrangements.
 
WILLEM HUBERS
Willem “Bill” Hubers, 73, of Alderwood passed away Saturday, Oct. 30, 2004, at Alderwood Community Hospital.
Bill was born July 15, 1931 in The Netherlands, the son of Adriana (Van de Graaf) and Cornelis Hubers. Bill received his education and served in the U.S. Army in The Netherlands before coming to the U.S. in 1954 to join his family. Bill worked for various farmers in the Yakima Valley including Louis Syria and Harry Visser.
He enjoyed going to the coffee shop twice a day, playing cards and taking trips to the casino.  He cherished his nieces, nephews and time spent with family.
Bill is survived by three sisters, Barbara Hubers, Adri Clapp and husband, John, and Symina Meeker, all of Alderwood; three nephews, Lawrence Meeker and wife, Joyce, Clarence Meeker and wife, Pam, and Willard Meeker; five nieces, Elaine MacDougall and husband, Jeff, Edie Graf and husband, George, Jana Sall and husband, Paige and Beth Clapp; six great-nieces; and two-great nephews.
He was preceded in death by his parents.
Viewing and visitation will be held Tuesday, Nov. 2, 2004, from 2 to 8 p.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood.  Funeral services will be held Wednesday, Nov. 3, 2004, at 10 a.m. at Wells Funeral Home, Alderwood. Burial will be at Lower Valley Memorial Gardens, Alderwood. Those wishing to honor Bill’s memory may contribute to the American Cancer Society.


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


