
Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 9/22/2004

1-Column
Parent info center open house setfor this Thursday
An open house for Alderwood's new parent information and resource center will be held Thursday, Sept. 23, from 5 to 7 p.m. The official ribbon cutting is slated for 6 p.m.
The resource center has been made possible through a partnership with the Alderwood School District and the Northwest Community Action Center, funded by a grant from the U.S. Department of Education.
The new center has been created especially for parents and adults who wish to become more involved in their child's education, in an effort to improve student academic achievement. The center will provide information and resources in conjunction with the local school district's community technology center. While the technology center will focus on teaching computer skills to parents, the new resource center will ensure parents have access to information on a variety of topics important to student achievement.
Yesenia Rodriguez will serve as the new resource center facilitator. She will work to provide assistance to school buildings in their efforts to engage parents directly in student learning, strengthening parenting skills and increasing parents' confidence to communicate more effectively with school personnel.
Thursday evening's open house is open to the public.
 
Heartstrings to perform Saturday
PROSSER - The Gospel singing group, Heartstrings, is inviting its listeners to a Gospel music jamboree at the Prosser City Park on Saturday, Sept. 25, beginning at 1 p.m.
Calvary Baptist Church of Prosser is presenting the jamboree during the balloon rally weekend. There will be other activities in the park, as well, including a car show.
The scheduled performers for the 1 to 5 p.m. Gospel music jamboree include the Southern Gospel Quartet, New Covenant, Doug Diamond, Joyful Noise and Heartstrings.
 
Fair admission, parking free this Friday, Sept. 24
YAKIMA - There will be no charge for admission, or parking, at the Central Washington State Fair in Yakima for three hours this Friday, Sept. 24.
The special promotion will run from noon until 3 p.m.
"We've had huge turnouts the last two years that we did this," said Greg Stewart, fair president and general manager.
After 3 p.m. this Friday, the regular gate weekday admission will be $10 for adults and $5 for senior citizens and children ages 6 to 12. Children under the age of 6 will be admitted free at all times when accompanied by an adult. Parking onthe fairgrounds is $5 in the main lot and $4 for the infield.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


