
Local Perry Tech grads secure jobs while still in school
Story by: Ellie Olmsen
Date Published to Web: 3/23/2002
Before graduation at least three of six Alderwood area graduates from Perry Technical Institute in Yakima had secured jobs. Tristan Kelley, a recent graduate of the telecommunication technology program, is now working for Lockheed Martin in the Tri-Cities; Lorenzo Sabedra Jr., a recent graduate of the electrical technology program, is now working for Berg Electric in California; and Marcus Rasmusson, a recent graduate of the electrical technology program, is now working at Shields Bags and Printing in Yakima.   All three of the former students, who graduated on Feb. 26, said Perry Tech helped get them ready for the jobs they are currently doing.   Kelley said through the telecommunication technology program he learned about everything from the phone industry to the internet and low voltage wiring.   "It gives you a good basis for the whole field," Kelley said of Perry Tech.   Kelley is currently using his education at Lockheed Martin in the Tri-Cities, working on everything from running computer networks to setting up and running different simulator programs.   Sabedra said his education at Perry Tech helped introduce him to a variety of different things in the field of electrical technology. He said he learned about everything from the National Electric Code to using a computer to controling a plant's electrical system.   Now that he is working for Berg Electric in California, Sabedra said he is using what he learned at Perry Tech.   "So far it's been great," Sabedra said of his new job, which he secured while he was still a student at Perry Tech.   Rasmusson said Perry Tech showed him how to do a little bit of everything.   "They just give you a foot in the door," he said.   Rasmusson currently works as a maintenance electrician at Shields Bags and Printing, a job he secured three weeks before graduation. And Rasmusson isn't the first electrician in his family, he said his grandfather was an electrician, as well as several other family members.   Rasmusson, Sabedra and Kelley weren't the only recent graduates of Perry Tech. Delfino R. Campos of Grandview and Martin Cervantes Jr. of Mabton both graduated from the electrical technology program, and Javier Martinez of Alderwood graduated from the telecommunication technology program.   


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


