


Forum


 


Date Published to Web: 9/15/2004




1-Column


Apology from car show organizers


We would like to take this opportunity to sincerely apologize to all who attended the Pacific Northwest Tejano Music Association's car show on Sunday, Sept. 5, for the language used in some of the performances on stage. The Pacific Northwest Tejano Music Association takes full and complete responsibility for what transpired.


There were some performers who traveled a long distance, donating their time and talent to perform. We would like to thank all of our volunteers who gave their time and effort. The Pacific Northwest Tejano Music Association is founded on the premise of encouraging and continuing the exposure of young people to Tejano and other types of music. In future events, we want to personally ensure that performances and/or entertainment will be geared towards our goal and mission.


Again, please accept our apologies. If you have any additional concerns or recommendations, feel free to call us at (509) 882-5050 or 837-2236.


/s/ Florentino Patina, President, Pacific Northwest Tejano Music Association


 


Local librarian appreciates help


The Alderwood branch library finished another wonderful summer reading program, and would like to thank everyone who helped us Discover New Trails at their library this summer, and then helped us celebrate at our Trail's End Party.


We first want to thank Alderwood's excellent readers of all ages for joining in the fun this summer. More adult readers signed up than ever before this year. We also had a wonderful group of very small library patrons whose big brothers and sisters read to them so that they both could earn reading prizes. And, our thanks go, of course, to all the ages in between who read everyday and collected their rewards.


We want to thank Bob's Drive-In for generously giving out ice cream cones to all our young readers who finished a whole discovery trail. Our prize winners' gratitude increased as temperatures rose. Thank you very much, Dale Johnson.


The Valley's Market, through its manager, Jaime Aguayo, provided delicious munchies for our end-of-summer celebration, as they have every summer. Their backing makes our parties possible. We truly appreciate the support of The Valley's Market.


We want to give special thanks to Jill Nettleton, who brought us an adorable miniature donkey and a "lordly llama" for our petting zoo. Our young readers were overwhelmed at their chance to touch animals they had only seen in books. We are very grateful for Jill's help.


Thank you, Alderwood Alderwood Daily News. You are the best! You have listed our events in your calendars, promoted our programs and celebrated our special occasions. Thank you very much. Your assistance helps make our summer programs a pleasure to offer to our favorite town.


/s/ Kay C. Saunders, Alderwood branch librarian


 


Register to vote


We live in a country built on freedom, liberty and rights. I have been out in my community going door-to-door to register voters. I believe that all persons who are 18 and citizens of the USA should be registered. If they then choose to not vote, to go along with what others decide for them, then so be it.


I have been able to meet super people in my community, and encourage more participation in decision-making in the process.


I do have one concern and thought to share with everyone. I think that anyone who works for and gets paid with taxpayers' money should be registered voters, whether they work for cities, school or port districts, counties, state or the federal government. It takes so little time or effort to be registered and you can even vote by absentee ballot from your home. Please everyone, register to vote, and vote!


/s/ Carol Stone, Alderwood


 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





