
Lightning bolts past Mabton gridders, 35-7
Story by: Bob Story
Date Published to Web: 9/20/2004
UNION GAP - Ouch! The Mabton High School football team got stung by a lightning bolt last Friday. The LaSalle Lightning racked up a 35-7 Central Washington 'B' League victory against the Vikings.   The defeat dropped the Vikes to 0-2 in conference play, 1-2 overall. LaSalle improved to 1-1 in league play, 2-1 overall on the season.   "We didn't play assignment defense," said Mabton Coach D.J. Search. "And, being physical, we didn't show up with that, either."   LaSalle senior Carlos DeJesus was a one-man wrecking crew. A scatback type runner, he rushed for all three of the Lightning's first half touchdowns. The first came on a 28-yard burst, the second on an 83-yard breakaway run in which he eluded tackle-after-tackle. His third TD run of the opening half was a nifty 34-yard scamper.   DeJesus ended up with 152 rushing yards. Surprisingly, he gained all that yardage on just seven carries.   DeJesus wasn't the only runner that LaSalle threw at the Vikings. Four other running backs carried the ball an aggregate 27 times, gaining an additional 84 yards.   The Lightning added 59 yards through the air on 5-of-12 passing numbers.   Mabton's rushing attack wasn't all that bad, as the Vikes totaled 149 yards on the ground. Their quarterback, Ryan Harris, and tailback Ray Elizondo accounted for most of the yards, as each toted the ball eight times for 33 yards. Tailback Jovani Ochoa added a 32-yard rushing performance on seven carries.   Through the air last Friday, the Vikes were able to pass for just 9 yards. Harris was 1-for-10 with one interception.   Mabton's lone score came in the second quarter. The Vikes capped off a 60-yard drive with a 5-yard TD scamper by Harris.   LaSalle added two touchdowns after intermission to account for the final 35-7 score.   This coming Friday's game at Mabton against visiting Bridgeport (0-2) will be the 2004 Homecoming game for the Vikings. Search said his club knows Bridgeport likes to spread the field.   "They'll use a single back and like to throw a lot," he said.


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


