


Forum


 


Date Published to Web: 3/17/2003




1-Column


Library vote appreciated


WARNING! The 673 Alderwood registered voters who said YES on the library annexation are in danger of being hugged with "wild abandon" by me and every other dedicated library user who lives in the county. With no voice in the matter, we just crossed our fingers and hoped. Actually, we said a few prayers, too.


While we're busy appreciating the YES voters, we'll include the voters who didn't go to the polls or use the absentee ballots to vote NO. Not voting in this case can be viewed as a willingness to support all Alderwood residents who do use the library, whether they're among that group or not.


Just in case I haven't made the intention of this letter clear: thank you, thank you, thank you! Maybe it's a good thing that county residents don't know any of the yes voters or abstainees. There would be a whole lot of hugging going on!


/s/ Daphne Stewart, Alderwood


 


Veteran plaques


I am a member of the Veterans Memorial Committee, of which Greg Schlieve is the chairman. The second phase of the construction of this memorial is coming to an end. Greg is presently selling bronze plaques that can be purchased for any veteran who has ever served directly in an American war or conflict.


The veteran paid a great price by willingly putting his life in harm's way so that the world would be free of tyrants, such as Saddam Hussein. And many gave up their lives for this great cause.


Because of them millions of people now live in freedom around the world. And those millions are now closing in on being over a billion in just the last 100 years. Thus, the value of what the veteran has done for humanity cannot be measured.


But for $300 they can be remembered. Yes, for $300 you can memorialize the veteran on one of the finest veterans memorials in the United States. It's right here in Alderwood. But time is running out. When these plaques are sold, then the opportunity to remember our war veterans will have passed, and will probably never return to us again during our lifetimes.


And all it costs is $300, which is a very small price to pay when you consider how much they have already paid for your freedom, and the freedom of millions and millions people around the world.


I urge you to contact Greg Schlieve and purchase a bronze plaque before this opportunity is gone forever. You'll never regret it.


/s/ Major Delbert Pease, Alderwood


 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





