


Obituaries


 


Date Published to Web: 1/20/2004




PAID OBITUARY


GERALD BLUNK


Gerald Blunk, 70, a long-time Grandview resident died Friday, Jan. 16, 2004, at his home in Grandview.


He was born Nov. 3, 1933 in Yakima to Ellis and Alta (Morgan) Blunk.


He is survived by his wife, Rita Blunk of Grandview; one daughter, Diane McDaniel of Spokane; two grandchildren; and one brother, Jack Blunk of Mexico.


At Mr. Blunk’s request there will be no formal funeral services. Those wishing to honor Mr. Blunk’s memory may contribute to the Lower Valley Pathway, P.O. Box 736, Grandview, WA 98930. Jones Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements.


 


ROBERT G. CLARKE


Robert G. (Bob) Clarke, 61, of Federal Way died suddenly Tuesday, Jan. 13, 2004, at his home in Federal Way.


Mr. Clarke is survived by three sons, Ronald Clarke and wife, Kelley, James Clarke and Allen Clarke and wife, Tammy; three brothers, Bill Clarke and wife, Evelyn, Richard Clarke and wife, Becky, and Rusty Clarke and wife, Sheila; seven grandchildren; and numerous nieces and nephews.


He was preceded in death by his parents, Jack and Irene Clarke; and one grandson, Taylor.


Memorial services will be held Thursday, Jan. 22, 2004, at 11 a.m. at Yahn & Sons, Auburn.


 


BETTY JEAN FRANK


Betty Jean Frank, 77, of Prosser died Friday, Jan. 16, 2004.


She was born July 24, 1926 in Indianapolis, Ind. to John and Lila Hennis. She married Roscoe “Buck” Buckles in June 1942 in Danville, Ind. In 1944 they moved to Hanford and later to Richland. They farmed in Alderwood from 1950-1955. They then moved to their farm on King Tull road in Prosser. Roscoe died in January 1968.


She married Carl Frank in 1983 and together they lived in Toppenish until his death in January 1996. She then returned to the farm in Prosser.


She is survived by one sister, Lois Graham of Indianapolis; two sons, Ron Buckles and wife, Evelyn, and Johnny Buckles and wife, Jodi, all of Prosser; one daughter, Sharon Snyder and husband, David, of Birch Bay; two step-sons, Ron Frank and wife, Delores, of Zillah and Jim Frank and wife, Barbara, of Yakima; a daughter-in-law, Maria Frank of Toppenish; and 39 grandchildren and great-grandchildren and step-grandchildren.


Memorial services will be held Saturday, Jan. 24, 2004, at 11:30 a.m. at the Prosser Kingdom Hall, 330 Nunn Rd.


Prosser Funeral Home is in charge of arrangements.


 


  
HENRY FRANK


Henry Frank, 90, of Grandview died Sunday, Jan. 18, 2004, at Grandview Health Care Center.


He was born April 27, 1913 in Laurel, Mont., the son of Katherine Marie (Haaz) and Philip Frank. At an early age he with his family moved to the Alderwood Valley, where he received his education. On July 31, 1937 he married Margaret Van Ness in Wapato. Following their marriage they lived in Selah for 10 years before moving to Grandview. He worked as a custodian for the Arthur H. Jones School in Grandview for 26 ? years until his retirement in 1976.


He is survived by his wife of 66 years, Margaret Frank of Prosser; three children, Katherine M. Koch of Prosser, Jerry Frank and wife, Karma, of Grandview, and Arlene Burden of Richland; a daughter-in-law; 10 grandchildren; 14 great-grandchildren; one great-great-grandson; two brothers, Alex Frank of Yakima and Victor Frank of Puyallup; and two sisters, Lydia Payton of Alderwood and Mary Valentine of Yakima.


He was preceded in death by his parents; one son, Tom Frank; three brothers, Willie, Jack and George; and one sister, Katie Weeks.


Viewing and visitation will be held Tuesday, Jan. 20, 2004, from 2 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Grandview. Funeral services will be held Wednesday, Jan. 21, 2004, at 10:30 a.m. at Jones Funeral Home, Grandview. Burial will be in Grandview Cemetery under the direction of Jones Funeral Home, Grandview. Those wishing to honor Mr. Frank’s memory may contribute to the Grandview Health Care Center. Memorials may be left at Jones Funeral Home at the time of service. 


 


KEITH L. MATHENY


Keith Laverne Matheny, 64, of Anatone died Sunday, Jan 11, 2004, from an automobile accident at Grande Ronde River in Asotin County.


Keith was born to Rosalind Porter Matheny and Harry Asa Matheny, May 22, 1939 in Asotin.


He was raised in Asotin, Grouse Flats and the Pomeroy area, where he attended school. After high school he was a laborer and ranch hand in the Pomeroy and Anatone area.


Keith married Lynn M. Brockway Oct. 3, 1970, in Clarkston. They divorced July 9, 1991 in Alderwood. 


He started logging and became a sawyer for the McGregor Triangle company, clearing the area for a power line through Idaho into Montana from 1967 to 1968. From 1969 until 1983 he worked in construction starting as a powder monkey at Dworshak Dam, then at The Dalles, Lower Granite Dam, Little Goose Dam and at Hanford Reservation in Richland. He then worked as a ranch hand in the Mabton and Alderwood area. He moved to Seattle to work construction and in 1991 was injured on the job and became disabled.


He had lived in Anatone for the past 11 years.


Keith enjoyed hunting, fishing and outdoor activities.


He is survived by his sons, Carl Keith Matheny of the Tri-Cities and Rodrick James Matheny of Anchorage, Alaska; Keith’s former wife, Lynn Brockway Matheny of Anchorage; brothers, Ronald Matheny of Juneton, Mace Matheny of Starbuck and Allar Matheny of Pomeroy; sister, Louise Martin of Clarkston; brother, Daniel (Tom) Matheny of Aberdeen; sisters, Merideth Huff of Olympia, (Wilma) June Seitz of Canton, Mich., Sally Hallam of Evans, Carol Brown of Tenino and Suzie Saditoshi of Muncie, Tenn.; granddaughter, Sativa Matheny of Juneton; and aunts, cousins, nieces and nephews.


He was preceded in death by his parents, Rosalind Matheny Seitz and Harry Asa Matheny.


A memorial service will be held Saturday, Jan. 24, 2004, at 11 a.m. at Merchant Funeral Home, Clarkson.


Memorial donations may be given to St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, 501 St. Jude Place, Memphis, TN 38105-1905.


 


JAGDISH LULLUBHAI PATEL


Jagdish Lullubhai Patel, 61, of Kent and a former Alderwood resident, passed away Wednesday, Jan. 14, 2004. His wife, Nita Patel and daughters, Nisha and Neha Patel, along with their mother, Pragna Patel, were by his side. Also present were friends, Randy M. Johnson and John Sundance Dempsey.


Jagdish was born July 5, 1942 in Gujurat State, India. He spent his early years attending school in India before coming to the United States. Jagdish earned his Bachelor of Science degree in India and then came to America in 1969 to finish his education, earning his Master’s in systems engineering. He then pursued a career in the aerospace industry working for Hughes Aircraft, McDonnel Douglas, Lockheed and Boeing. He retired in 2002. He spent time painting, reading, bird watching and astronomy which he enjoyed very much. 


His greatest love was for his family which he treasured the most.


Jagdish is survived by his wife, Nita Patel; two daughters, Nisha Patel and Neha Patel; one brother; three sisters; and numerous nieces and nephews.


Jagdish was preceded in death by his parents; one brother; and one sister.


Jagdish was a very strong advocate of organ donations, and any memorials towards this cause would be greatly encouraged. Marlatt Funeral Home, Kent is in charge of arrangements. 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





