
Entertainment Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 7/2/2004

1-Column
Prosser parkwill explodewith activitiesthis 4th of July
PROSSER - Prosser city park will be full of activities for the entire family Sunday, July 4.
Headlining the 4th of July activities is a day-long car show and shine. Also, numerous service organizations will have booths set up and will be prepared to tempt the tastebuds of those in attendance with specialty foods.
The day's activities will begin at 9 a.m. with a kiddie parade through the downtown streets of Prosser.
The fun then shifts to the city park. Besides the car show and shine and the many food booths, there will be bingo games offered by the Knights of Columbus  from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. Numerous game and activity booths will be operating during the same time period.
From 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. the city park stage will be the site where several entertainers will perform. The Dirty River Blues Band is set to perform from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., Tara & Trina from 1:15 to 2:30 p.m. and The Shades from 3 to 6 p.m.
Following the fun in the park event, a fireworks display is scheduled at Art Fiker Stadium, at approximately 10 p.m.
 
Senior actorsto present ‘Mame’  in October, 2004
Over The Hill Theatricals has announced it will present the timeless musical, "Mame," as its fall production.
The over age 45 amateur acting group will present the play in mid-October at the Alderwood High School auditorium. Tryouts will be held Aug. 2 and 3, from 7 to 10 p.m. at Alderwood United Methodist Church, according to Sheila Hazzard, who will direct the popular play
"We encourage men and women, ages 45 and older, to join us in presenting this entertaining play about a bigger than life woman and her adventures," said Hazzard.
The play will be produced by Donna Sartin.
For more information about the tryouts or Over the Hill membership, call 837-3157, 882-2919 or 786-3990.
 
Yakima Folklife Festival bigger, better than ever
YAKIMA - More than 100 music and dance performances at 13 venues highlights this year's Yakima Folklife Festival.
The three-day extravaganza is set for Friday, Saturday and Sunday—July 9-11.
The main thrust of activities will once again take place at Yakima Valley Museum and Franklin Park. Besides dance and music, there will be plenty of kids activities, a medieval faire, crafts and food booths.
The Saturday, July 10, park entertainment kicks off at 11:30 a.m. Between the nearby museum and the park, six stages will be set up, all featuring folklife musicians. Non-stop entertainment will be presented until about 8 p.m. that evening.
For those who want to continue the fun, a contradance will be held at the Broadway Grange Hall (Washington and 11th avenues) Saturday night, from 7 to 10 p.m. Organizers say there will be line and square dancing to a live string band, and instruction will be provided for beginners.
The fun starts all over again Sunday, July 11, at Franklin Park, with more musical groups performing from 11 a.m. until 8 p.m.
For those who want to get an early start at this year's festival, six Yakima eateries and pubs will host live music Friday evening, July 9. The sites include Grant's Brewpub, The Depot, Bob's Keg & Cork, Barrel House, Greystone and Essencia Bakery.
 
Gourmet BBQ Extravaganza set for Friday, July 9
YAKIMA - Like barbecue? Then plan on camping out all day under the flag pole at the Yakima County Courthouse on Friday, July 9.
The Yakima County Sheriff's Department will host its eighth annual Gourmet BBQ Extravaganza that day. Breakfast will be served from 6:30 to 10 a.m., and lunch and dinner from 11 to 6:30 p.m.
Last year, the Sheriff's agency raised more than $36,000 for Special Olympics. Some of that money came from last year's barbecue fund-raiser. The proceeds from this year's event will also benefit Special Olympics.
"Our agency led all other law enforcement agencies in the state, earning us the number one position in the Circle of Honor for the fifth year in a row," said Sheriff's Office spokesman Stacee Brooks.
The Friday, July 9, breakfast menu includes eggs, ham, sausage, pancakes, juice, coffee and hot chocolate. The lunch and dinner menu offers gourmet burgers, foot-long dogs, chips, fruit and drinks.
 
Moses Lake offers free concert series
MOSES LAKE - Centennial Theatre, located on the lakefront in downtown Moses Lake, will again be home to that city's free summer concert series.
Organizers say they have booked another exceptional season with a variety of talent and genres.
This year's line-up includes the Christopher Moyer Orchestra with guest vocalist Elisha Mitchell on Sunday, July 4; The Mills Brothers on Saturday, July 17; The Rangers on Saturday, July 24; Cornell Gunter's Coasters on Saturday, July 31; Misty River on Saturday, Aug. 7; Lavay Wells & Her Red Hot Skillet Lickers on Saturday, Aug. 14; Al Stewart on Saturday, Aug. 28; and BeatleMania Live on Saturday, Sept. 4.
Admission to all the concerts is free. The venue features casual grass bowl seating at an award winning amphitheater. Entrance to the theater will be on a first-come, first-serve basis.
The kick-off event this coming Sunday, July 4, features Christopher Moyer, a dedicated woodwind instrumentalist, vocalist and arranger. His orchestra is a collection of some of the finest musicians in the Inland Northwest. Accompanying the musical group to Moses Lake will be Gospel recording vocalist Elisha Mitchell. The Pacific Northwest native is described as having a heavenly voice and a name to match, as her name in Hebrew means "God of salvation."
 
Phoenix Festival returns this year
TROUT LAKE - After a one-year hiatus, the Phoenix Festival returns to Trout Lake, better than ever.
Following in the revolutionary spirit of festivals such as Burning Man, Tribal Gathering and Earthdance, Phoenix Festival is an autonomous music and arts festival happening Independence Day weekend, July 1-5.
The 2004 festival will feature performances on multiple stages by globally renowned musicians, actors, lyricists and visual artists.
This year's entertainers will include Blackalicious, The Coup, Saul Williams, Jello Biafra, Tipper, Dara, Hive, Shakta, Jay Tripwire, Lusine, Mr. Projectile, Consolidated & the Free Music Society Orchestra, Supersoul & The Grand Inquisitor, and DJ Realm.
Trout Lake organizers are adding a new dynamic this year at the Phoenix Festival, with a first ever live thematic performance stage, formally named Culture Jam. The stage will showcase regionally, nationally and internationally recognized musical artists specializing in electronic, intelligent dance music, dub, hip-hop and culturally eclectic sounds.
The four other stages will focus on an eclectic mix of electronic music genres, workshops and visual art. Additionally, there will be several interactive theme camps and art projects that will provide a snapshot of the festival's cultural community.
Chris West, who is helping to promote the July 1-5 event, said Phoenix Festival is a fun environment for thousands of participants to freely express themselves. He said it is the largest outdoor, non-commercial and community-based underground music and arts festival in the Pacific Northwest.
Tickets range in price from $35 to $65, and are available on the internet at the website: www.brownpaperticket.com.
For more information about Phoenix Festival, go to the site: www.phoenixfest.com.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


