


West Valley pulls away from Lady 'Hounds in the fourth


Story by: Ellie Olmsen


Date Published to Web: 1/14/2002


GRANDVIEW - The Lady Greyhounds gave it their all Tuesday night and found they could run with the Rams. The Grandview High School girls' basketball team was able to keep pace with the West Valley team, and despite the Lady 'Hounds finishing behind the Rams, Grandview Coach Adolfo Hinojosa said he was happy with what he saw.
   "It was a great game," Hinojosa said. "Now we know we can run with them and play with them."
   The final score in the match-up was 41-30, with the Lady 'Hounds staying within a bucket or two until the fourth quarter.
   "As good teams do, they hit some shots at crucial times," he said.
   Despite falling to West Valley, the Greyhounds still managed to gain some small victories over the visiting team.
   Hinojosa said one of the things the team wanted to do against West Valley was control the tempo and take away the Lady Rams' inside game, both of which the Grandview team was able to do Tuesday night. Hinojosa said the Lady Greyhounds also managed to press the West Valley team throughout all four quarters.
   "Defensively we did really well against them," Hinojosa said, noting that West Valley was forced to work the ball around.
   On the offensive side of things, Hinojosa said the Lady 'Hounds were able to convert some key steals into points, and also managed to successfully set off its transition offense.
   "Offensively we did what we wanted to do," Hinojosa said.
   For Hinojosa, a key player in the match-up against West Valley was junior Danelle Cowan. He said Cowan worked hard during the game, and managed a double/double with 12 points and 10 rebounds. Also scoring for the Lady 'Hounds was Jessica Rodriguez with 8 points and seven rebounds.
   Despite playing well against the West Valley team, Hinojosa said he did see some things the Grandview girls will have to work on during the week. He said the Lady 'Hounds (2-1, 6-3) need to work on keeping their composure and not running the ball without thinking about it. He said the team also had some key turnovers that led to key points for the West Valley team.
   "That really put us on our heels," Hinojosa said of the turnovers.
   He said the Grandview team will also have to work on not giving teams "second chance points." Hinojosa noted that during the West Valley game the Lady 'Hounds gave away too many second chance points, and said that not blocking out was one of the reasons why.
   Grandview will have a few days to practice before taking on Hanford on the road Friday night and Ellensburg at home Saturday night.
   . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com
   






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





