
AHS drama club play to take stage for five-day run
Story by: Jamie Smart
Date Published to Web: 2/13/2003
A story of jealousy, power and betrayal set to music is the foundation for the Alderwood High School Drama Club's presentation of Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat.   Under the direction of Maisy Sylling, with aid from Heidi Hellner-Gomez, opening night for the high school singers, dancers and actors will be Thursday, Feb. 19, on the stage of the Alderwood High School auditorium.   Leading the cast as Joseph is Robert Grimmer, with Jennifer Wells as the narrator. Mitch Lathen plays Jacob, Joseph's father, who is devastated when his sons decide to sell their youngest brother to a band of traveling traders.   Reporting Joseph's death to their father sets into motion one of the most touching stories in Biblical history about family betrayal. The treacherous brothers will be played both male and female actors, including Dane Wells, Jose Esquivel, Luke Spilles, Rebecca Razey, Brian Harvey, Alaina Hull, Anna Henry, Jessica Fuller, Tony Magana, Nikki Castro and Leslie Wells. Jon Martin and Keely LaCombe will play Adam and Eve. Jacob's wives include Aurora Weaver, Estela Florez, Amber Guy and Chelsea Clements. Ishmaelites will be played by Danny Mendoza, Alex Jetter and Richard McCardle.   Dancers include Sherran Martinez, Heather Van Cobach, Dione Cohan, Jessica Zamorano, Kat Bingham and Marika McNerney.   The brothers' wives will include Alyssa McMinimee, Courtney Cohan, Keely LaCombe, Jillian Jetter, Laura Matson, Lizzy Shehata, Brionna Hughes, Erendida Manzo, Marika McNerney, Tabitha DeRuyter and Heather Van Corbach. Alderwood High School teacher Troy Whittle will be the lone adult actor in the production, playing the Pharaoh. The nearly all-student production is aided by musical director Katie Haney and Dorothy Cohu. Student stage managers are Janelle Kilian and Matt Thomas. Lighting technicians include Jeff Davis and Ryan Webster, with Jeff Martin handling sound. Jessica Schilperoot and Norma Lopez are in charge of make-up.   The lobby crew under the direction of house manager Angela Marin includes Abi Anderson, Heather Deaton and Meagan Kraxenberger.   Also working behind the scenes are students Jaymee Arevalo, Kristina Bobadilla, Brian Campbell, Tony Cantu, Andrew Cervantes, Angela Hansen, Beatriz Jimenez, Joaquin Lopez, Kari Mandrell, Maria Martinez, Mathew Martinez, Stacie McIntire, Riley Morris, Perla Ortega, Lanna Pangle, Cami Richardson, Juan Rivera, Marissa Ruiz, Jesus Sanchez, Aaron Saunders, Mark Uribe and Ana Valencia.   With music by award-winning Andrew Lloyd Webber with lyrics by Tim Rice, the AHS drama club production is one families will want to attend.   The AHS Drama Club will present the popular Broadway musical in five-performances - Feb. 19, 20, 21, 27 and 28, with the curtain going up all five nights at 7 p.m.   Ticket prices are set at $5 for adults and $3 for senior citizens and students.   . Jamie Smart can be contacted at   (509) 837-4500, or you can e-mail her at jSmart@hawkpress.com


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


