
Grandview City Council Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 3/3/2002

1-Column
Surplus property approved for sale
GRANDVIEW - Grandview City Council members approved a list of items to be surplused. The list includes items from both the Public Works and the Grandview Police departments. Among those items approved for sale at auction are six used vehicle batteries, a Chevy panel van, three truck tool boxes, a wide array of car stereos, two patrol cars and an animal control vehicle.
Grandview Police Chief Dave Charvet said the two patrol cars being surplused have already been replaced and the new animal control vehicle should arrive in the next couple of weeks.
City Administrator Jim Sewell said the vehicles were scheduled for replacement this year.
 
New stop signto be erected
GRANDVIEW - A new stop sign will be erected at the intersection of Concord Avenue with East and West Concord Avenues following a decision made by Grandview City Council members Monday night.
Grandview Police Chief Dave Charvet told council members he has received quite a few complaints from that neighborhood of cars speeding through the area. He said it was neighborhood residents who suggested a stop sign be placed at the intersection to help slow down traffic.
The intersection is currently unsigned.
 
City joins county efforts to update Growth Management Act requirements
GRANDVIEW - Grandview City Council members voted Monday night to join efforts with Yakima County to update the city's Critical Area Ordinance and Shoreline Master Program, both of which are Growth Management Act requirements.
City Clerk Anita Palacios explained that the county has received state grant funding and is offering to take a regional approach to the two requirements.
 
Council approves comprehensive plan amendment and rezone
GRANDVIEW - Grandview City Council members approved a request made by Dan and Harriet Alexander to amend the city's Comprehensive Plan to change the future land use designation of approximately 13 acres located off of Wine Country Road near the east entrance into Grandview.
The 13 acres is located in two parcels, both of which are currently zoned agriculture with a future land use designation of residential. The rezone request was to change the future land use designation of the north parcel to commercial and the other parcel to single family residential.
After approval by Grandview City Council the request will be forwarded to the Washington State Growth Management Division for a 60-day review.
 
Poteet honored for years of serviceto community
GRANDVIEW - Grandview City Council members recognized police dispatcher Sue Poteet, who recently retired from the Grandview Police Department. Poteet has worked full-time at the department since January 1980 and just recently retired.
Poteet told Mayor Mike Bren that upon retiring she plans on traveling and visiting relatives.


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


