
Changes in district athletic code outlined
Story by: John Panni
Date Published to Web: 6/28/2002
Bill Daley, Alderwood High School athletic director, presented some of the changes in the activities club code that were made earlier this year, to the local school board recently.   The changes in the code came after a series of public meetings the high school athletic/activities advisory council held.   Daley told the school board he is excited about some of the changes in the policy.   "It is more in line with our philosophy," said Daley.   Daley pointed out the high school's athletic/activities advisory council has been reorganized. The council will consist of 14 members, made up of six community members, three school administrators, three coaches and two students. Daley will oversee the committee in the role of chairman. Prior to the change, it wasn't clear who the sitting members of the council would be. The group is scheduled to meet three times a year to discuss policies.   Other policy changes also outline who will serve on the five-member activities review board, which serves as the disciplinary panel for students accused of violating the code. The panel will consist of an administrator, two members of the faculty who are not coaches or advisors, the advisor of the activity from which the student has committed the violation and one other advisor. The student going before the panel also has the right to choose a faculty representative to serve on the board. Under the policy, the athletic director will select the faculty members to serve on the panel for each individual situation.   The policy is also stricter on defining alcohol violations. Consumption or possession of alcohol beverages is strictly not allowed and is punishable by a level one penalty, which requires the student to undergo alcohol intervention counseling.   The new policy is geared more towards intervention counseling than assessment.   "Really, what we are after is intervention," said Daley.   Intervention includes students receiving education, assessment and/or treatment from an independent state-approved treatment center. The intervention must be completed within 30 days of the violation.   The rest of the athletic code stayed intact.   "We have done a much better job of creating an athletic code that will easily be read," said Daley.   . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com   


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


