
Obituaries
 
Date Published to Web: 5/17/2004

MARIA MILANEZ
MARIA MILANEZ
Maria Milanez, 73, of Alderwood died Monday, May 17, 2004.
She is survived by her husband Elpidio Valencia; a daughter, Canderia Gonzalez of Alderwood; two brothers and four sisters; 10 grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
An obituary will be in Tuesday’s Alderwood Daily News.
Services pending at Valley Hill Funeral Home, Alderwood.
 
JAMES RILEY CORNWELL JR.
James Riley Cornwell Jr., 61, of Prosser went home to be with his Lord and Savior Wednesday, May 12, 2004, at Kadlec Medical Center.
He was born Feb. 9, 1943 in Prosser to Alice (Voss) and James R. Cornwell.
Jim was a passionate hunter, fisherman and outdoorsman. Whether he was hunting in a field in the Yakima Valley or he was on safari in South Africa, he was content. He was even happier when he came home and was able to share his outdoor adventures with his family.
Jim served in the U.S. Navy from 1961 to 1965.
He was a lifetime member of NRA, VFW and Eagles Lodge. He loved to go to the VFW and swap stories with all his good friends.
Jim worked at Flour Daniel at Hanford for 23 years as a maintenance manager. He was a much-respected boss, co-worker and friend.
 He loved to attend all his grandchildren’s sporting events – from football, basketball, baseball and wrestling, he was the number 1 fan. Jim was very well read and was a walking history encyclopedia. Anything his grandchildren couldn’t find on the Internet, they knew grandpa would know it.
He was also a very caring and compassionate person. He, along with his wife, Shirley, took care of his mother-in-law, Grace Aukamp, for six years making sure she was comfortable in her time of need.
 He was also a master storyteller. He could make a trip into the local supermarket sound like an adventure. He loved a good joke and always had one to share if you asked, and he had one to share if you didn’t. He had a nickname for everyone, and if he hadn’t given you one yet it was only a matter of time. From “Spamburger” and “Norman” to “Duke” or “Buzzard”, no one was safe. Everyone around him loved his sense of humor. We will miss it very much. When he was leaving a family reunion, barbecue or birthday party, he would always say, “I’m sure glad you had a chance to see me again”, leaving a smile on everyone’s face. He will be greatly missed by all.
 Survivors include his wife, Shirley Cornwell of Prosser; five sons, James R. (Maggie) Cornwell III of Grandview, Scott Adam (Mary) Cornwell of Warden, Michael Anthony (Hilda) Cornwell of Outlook, Jimmy (Mickie) Martin and Cary (Teri) Martin, both of Prosser; one daughter, Beckie Cornwell of Warden; two brothers, Joe Cornwell and Jerry Cornwell; four sisters, Sharon Schragg, Arlene Craig, Kathy Cornwell and Becky Engles; a special friend, Bill Bancroft; 26 grandchildren, one great-grandson; and numerous nieces and nephews.
He was preceded in death by his parents; and two sisters, Theresa Mallonee and Ann Cornwell.
Viewing will be held Monday, May 17, 2004, from noon to 8 p.m. at Langevin-Mussetter Funeral Home, 1010 W. Yakima Ave, Yakima. Funeral services will be held Tuesday, May 18, 2004, at noon at Langevin-Mussetter with interment to follow at West Hills Memorial Park, with full military honors provided by Prosser VFW Post 3207.


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


