
1975 Alderwood High grad tosses hat into Senate race
 
Date Published to Web: 8/11/2004
KENNEWICK - Brad Klippert of Kennewick, a 1975 Alderwood High School graduate, has added his name into the hat as a conservative Republican candidate for the U.S. Senate race.   A self-proclaimed evangelical Christian, Klippert hopes to defeat incumbent Sen. Patty Murray, who is seeking her third term in Washington D.C.   Klippert, a Benton County sheriff's deputy, says he is putting his faith in God's will as he embarks on his campaign.   Saying it is imperative that the United States maintain a strong national defense, Klippert, a 17-year member of the National Guard, believes the rights of every American must be protected.   "I also strongly feel that each American should possess a strong sense of responsibility. Both in service to our nation as a whole and in personal responsibility for one's actions or the lack there of," he said.   A certified teacher with a Master's degree in teaching, Klippert said he is supportive of the nation's teachers and in providing a good strong educational system.   A full time law enforcement officer and former paramedic firefighter, he is also supportive of public servants, safety and a justice system that protects citizens.   Klippert, the son of former Alderwoodrs Dewayne Klippert and Sandra Klippert, said his career in law enforcement gives him a foundation to actively address national security issues and concerns. He said he will be tough on criminals and will pursue the enactment of legislation that supports strong sentences.   "Although we have the greatest government system in the world, ultimately I believe it's the American people that make America great. I believe in hard working Americans like the American military, law enforcement officers, firefighters, teachers, farmers, construction workers, health service personnel and legal/justice personnel," he said.   An independent business owner, Klippert said he also believes in free enterprise and the entrepreneur, and in the sanctity of human life.   "I believe that the United States of America is great, but I believe it can be greater," he said.   Saying many Washington residents are tired of politicians, Klippert hopes to offer voters an alternative in this election.   "I believe they want leaders. Leaders who they know will do the right thing even in the face of adversity," he said.   "I am a God fearing, Bible believing, Ten Commandment honoring, evangelical Christian candidate," he explained.   "I am not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ for it is the power of God unto salvation, to the individual and us as a nation," he said.   In September's primary election, Klippert will face fellow Republicans U.S. Representative George Nethercutt of Spokane, Reed Davis, William Chovil of Tacoma, Chuck Jackson of Snohomish and Gordon Pross of Ellensburg for a place on the November General Election ballot.


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


