
Alderwood defeats Bulldogs
Story by: John Panni
Date Published to Web: 4/14/2002
ELLENSBURG - While the Yakima Valley lay covered in clouds and cold weather yesterday, the Alderwood High School baseball team made the trip to Ellensburg, where the sun shined bright on the Grizzlies.   Alderwood defeated the Bulldogs 6-4 to move to 5-1 in Mid-Valley League play (8-3 overall). The Grizzlies will host Hanford in a twin bill this Saturday.   About the only gray spot for the Grizzlies in yesterday's game was the two errors that led to three unearned runs by Ellensburg.   "I am happy with the way our kids played," said Alderwood Coach Dave Martinez. "There were some things that happened in that game, but the kids kept their chins up."   Ellensburg scored two runs in the first and lone tallies in the second and fourth innings.   The Bulldogs had a pretty good day at the plate, recording nine hits. Ellensburg also had two errors in the game.   Alderwood scored three runs in the first inning. Micah Zakahi had a sacrifice fly to score Pete Marquez and teammate Nathan Anderson ripped a two-run single.   The Grizzlies picked up a lone run in the third inning and then two more runs in the top of the fourth.   With one out in the fourth inning, Marquez moved to third off an error in the outfield. Teammate Tyler Esqueda made it to first base on the same play and later stole second. Two passed balls then scored Marquez and Esqueda.   Zakahi gained his third win of the season (3-2) with his three innings of work yesterday. Zakahi gave up one earned run, five hits, two walks and had five strikeouts. R.J. Elizondo worked the middle of the game on the mound, going 2-1/3 innings. Elizondo allowed four hits and three walks. He had one strikeout. Derek Uberuaga, though, came up big in his first save of the season. Uberuaga pitched in relief in the sixth inning with one out and the bases loaded. Uberuaga got the first batter he faced to pop up and then the next one to strike out to end the inning. Uberuaga had three strikeouts and one walk.   "That was a good test for him," said Martinez. "Derek got it done."   Alderwood had a decent day at the plate with six hits. Marquez, Esqueda, Anderson, Elizondo and Chris Newberry each had a hit in the game. Grizzly catcher Michael Johnson had three walks in the game and scored two runs. Newberry was also walked twice. Johnson has a team-high 13 walks while Newberry is second with 12.   Martinez said he is excited about this weekend's doubleheader against Hanford. He said the Falcons have been scoring a lot of runs lately, but Hanford has also been giving up a lot of runs.   "I hope we have a big crowd," said Martinez. "We will go out there and see what happens."      


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


