
Mabton School Board Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 2/26/2004

1-Column
Mabton School Board shortens spring break
MABTON - The Mabton School District will make up two school days lost to icy January weather during its April spring break.
The Mabton School Board, meeting this past Monday night, approved removing two days from the spring break schedule to give students more class time before they face their annual Washington Assessment of Student Learning examinations.
School closures in January due to inclement weather will be made up April 1 and 2.
Originally, Mabton School District was to have been on spring break Thursday, April 1, through Friday, April 9.
Mabton students will celebrate spring break beginning Monday, April 5. The last day of school will be June 9 with seniors graduating June 4.
 
Mabton School Board boosts lunch prices
MABTON - The Mabton School Board during its Monday night meeting approved increases in lunch prices.
The student lunch prices, which haven't been raised in two years, will increase by 10¢ at the elementary school and by 5¢ at the high school, following the board action.
Artz-Fox Elementary School lunch prices will jump from $1.50 to $1.60 with lunch prices going from $1.75 to $1.80 at Mabton Junior-Senior High School.
The increased prices will go into effect during the 2004-05 school year.
 
 
Mabton School District hosts national literacy expert
MABTON - Nationally known reading expert Shelley Harwayne of New York City will hold a literacy workshop in the Mabton School District Monday, March 1.
Harwayne will work with the Mabton School District teaching staff from 8 to 10 a.m., as part of the district's emphasis on reading and writing improvements and teacher coaching. Harwayne is also expected to work with teaching coaches from Alderwood and Grandview school districts during her Lower Valley visit, according to Kevin Chase, Mabton School District superintendent.
A retired New York City Community School District 2 Superintendent, Harwayne is the author of several books, including  Lasting Impressions: Weaving Literature into Writing Workshops and Going Public: Priorities and Practices at the Manhattan New School.
 
 
Rob Roettger named Mabton Jr./Sr. High head track coach
MABTON - Artz-Fox Elementary School teacher Rob Roettger has been appointed head track coach at Mabton Junior-Senior High School.
Roettger, who is serving as a literacy coach through Mabton School District's Reading First Grant, will begin spring track practices the first of March.  Roettger will be assisted by D.J. Search, who coaches the Viking football team.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


