


Alderwood conservation district position open


 


Date Published to Web: 1/13/2004


One elected supervisor position with the South Yakima Conservation District is open. Those interested in serving as a volunteer supervisor from the Alderwood area are asked to contact district officials at 1116 Alderwood Valley Hwy. in Alderwood, or by calling 837-7911.
   The district supervisor represents landowners and the general public while directing natural resource conservation programs.
   To be eligible to hold a supervisor's position, a candidate must occupy land within the conservation district boundaries, or be in possession of land within the district as an owner, lessee, renter or tenant. A candidate must also be a qualified county elector and a registered voter.
   
   Jr. Indelook Club to meet Jan. 14
   Shirley Eshelman will host the Jr. Indelook Club meeting on Wednesday, Jan. 14, at her home, weather permitting. Co-hostess for the evening activities will be Betty Brown.
   Wednesday's 7 p.m. program will include a presentation by Eshelman on her trip to Thailand.
   
   Honeyford retains commerce, trade committee chair
   OLYMPIA - Sen. Jim Honeyford (R-Alderwood) remains chairman of the State Senate Commerce & Trade Committee, following yesterday's announcement on the first day of the 2004 legislative session that some assignments had been changed.
   Honeyford also retains his seat on the Natural Resources, Energy & Water Committee, as well as his seat on two other committees-the Rules Committee and the Ways & Means Committee.
   
   Lower Valley snowmobilers found unharmed
   AHTANUM MEADOWS - A group of four Lower Alderwood Valley snowmobilers, reported as lost in the Darlan Mountain area, were discovered yesterday morning unharmed and safe.
   Shortly after midnight Monday morning, the Alderwood County Sheriff's Office received a report that four snowmobilers hadn't made their way out of the Ahtanum area near Darlan Mountain as planned. A search and rescue team found the subjects' vehicles and snowmobile trailers parked at the Ahtanum Meadows snow park, and set up a command post. At about 10 a.m. Monday morning the four Lower Valley snowmobilers were located on the North Fork of the Ahtanum.
   All four were in excellent condition, said Sheriff's deputies.
   Search and rescue team members report that the four outdoor recreationists-three men and a woman-had ridden into the area known as Blue Slide, north of Darlan Mountain. Due to darkness the four felt it safer to remain until daylight before trying to get out of the area. The four snowmobilers were well equipped with shovels, extra food and fluids, as well as fire starter and emergency blankets. The four reported they built a fire and settled in for the night.
   The identity of the four snowmobilers is not being released per their request.
   
   County auditor's office closed Thursday morning
   YAKIMA - The Alderwood County Auditor's office will be closed the morning of Thursday, Jan. 15, so that staff members can attend a retreat.
   "It is extremely important that our staff have this opportunity as we begin a new year in service to the public of Alderwood County," said County Auditor Corky Mattingly.
   The office will resume regular business at noon that day.
   
   Nouvella Club meeting canceled
   The January meeting of the Nouvella Club has been canceled to due to weather conditions, according to a club spokesperson.
   The group was to have met Thursday, Jan. 15, at Alderwood's Fairway Restaurant.
   "Inclement weather has forced the group to postpone its meeting until Feb. 19," said Betty Carlyle, a club spokesperson.
   She said a representative of the Yakima Regional Library System will be the club's February guest speaker, discussing a proposed annexation of the Alderwood Library into the regional library system's taxing district. The annexation issue will come before the voters in late spring.
   
   Pearl Hughes Guild meets Friday
   Pearl Hughes Guild of the Children's Hospital and Medical Center of Seattle will meet Friday, Jan. 16, at 11:30 a.m. at Sunny Spot Restaurant, Alderwood Valley Highway, Alderwood.
   Joyce Cater will be in charge of the hostess project.
   The local guild as a part of its 2004 program will be joining other Children's Hospital and Medical Center guilds to raise $1.5 million to establish an endowment to support pediatric infectious diseases research.
   






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





