


Classification proposal would change the look of the Mid-Valley League


Story by: John Panni


Date Published to Web: 2/6/2002


There is a proposal that will be coming up for a vote before Washington Interscholastic Activities Association (WIAA) members in April that could change the make-up of the Mid-Valley League.
   The proposed amendment, which failed by three votes last year, would reclassify schools in the state based on a percentage.
   WIAA District 5 Director Bill Gant, whose coverage area includes Alderwood, Pasco, Bickleton and Ellensburg, didn't have the exact figures that would be used to figure out the percentage based classifications, but said the proposal is designed to make it where there are an even number of schools in each classification throughout the state.
   District 4, which is the Vancouver area, is also proposing a measure for classifications just for football. The 'B' classification would be for schools with no more than 133 students. The 1A ranks couldn't be more than 370 students, while 2A couldn't have more than 893 students. The 3A football schools couldn't have more than 893 students in the top three grades, while 4A schools would be everything above the 3A maximum. Gant said the District 4 proposal is just for football and is different than the percentage based allocation.
   Gant said the proposal to lump schools together in classifications based on a percentage of enrollment could have a dramatic effect on the Mid-Valley League. Gant said under this formula, the Mid-Valley League could have just four schools in it, with Ellensburg, Wapato and Prosser falling under the 2A classifications.
   If the proposal to base classifications on a percentage formula were to pass it would take effect in 2006. Also, if the proposal passed no school would be able to take a postseason allocation with them if they opted up to another classification.
   Alderwood High School Athletic Director Bill Daley said there are a lot of issues surrounding the proposal. He said if it were to pass, there would have to be some creative scheduling done to accommodate each sports season.
   . John Panni can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or email him at mPanni@hawkpress.com
   






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





