


Lady 'Hounds run over Prosser Mustangs


Story by: Ellie Olmsen


Date Published to Web: 1/21/2002


PROSSER - Walking into the Prosser High School gym Tuesday night Grandview girls' basketball coach Adolfo Hinojosa didn't think the Lady 'Hounds would be able to simply walk away with things. However, after coming out and taking the early lead, the Prosser team was never able to catch up.
   The Grandview Lady 'Hounds rallied past Prosser using both an aggressive defense and teamwork to finish with a 50-39 victory.
   Hinojosa said before the game he thought the Lady Mustangs were going to keep a tighter reign on the Grandview team and keep the score a little closer.
   "I thought it would go back and forth," Hinojosa said.
   Instead, the Lady 'Hounds adjusted to Prosser's flow and adapted to what the Lady Mustangs gave them.
   Hinojosa said the key to the Grandview win Tuesday night was the teamwork on the court. He said the Lady 'Hounds really came together. He noted that the Grandview team also showed great fundamental footwork against Prosser, as well as a lot of quickness.
   Defensively, he said the team was able to do a lot rebounding, as well as maintain a full court press throughout the game.
   "I don't think they realized how quick we were," Hinojosa said, noting that the Grandview team was able to easily break Prosser's press.
   Scoring for the Lady 'Hounds Tuesday night were junior Jessica Rodriquez, putting up 17 points, senior Jessica Arteaga with 7 points and senior Keitha Robertson with 6 points.
   Hinojosa said junior Danelle Cowan had an excellent night Tuesday, scoring a double/double with 12 points and 12 rebounds.
   "That's good to see," Hinojosa said of Cowan's efforts.
   Hinojosa also noted that Arteaga did a great job during the game.
   "She really made some great decisions out there," he said.
   Overall, Hinojosa said he was happy to see the Lady 'Hounds take the lead early in the game and hold onto it.
   "Prosser is an aggressive team," he said.
   The Grandview High School team (4-2, 8-4) will take to the court again Friday against Selah.
   
   . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com
   






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





