
Entertainment Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 6/18/2002

1-Column
Prosser to host Scottish Festthis Saturday
PROSSER - Everything Scottish, from Celtic music to Highland games such as an anvil launch to sheep dog trials, will be out in plain view tomorrow at the Port of Benton Wine & Food Park in Prosser.
Gates to the park open for the annual Scottish Fest this Saturday, June 19, at 9 a.m.
Organizers say festival goers will be treated to Celtic music and pipe bands while watching primitive arts and crafts exhibitions. Also scheduled are a sheep dog trial, Highland games, an anvil launch, Celtic story tellers and numerous children's activities. Theme foods and beverages will be available for purchase, as well. In addition, organizers have arranged for a U.S. Stick Dressing championship tomorrow.
Admission costs range from $5 for adults to $3 for senior citizens and children.
 
Health career camps for youths scheduled
There's no reason for your children to be bored this summer. Parents are being encouraged to check out several health career camps for their youngsters, two of which are offered here in Yakima County.
Ellen O'Brien Saunders, executive director of the Workforce Training and Education Coordinating Board, said a health career camp will give youths an opportunity to learn first-hand what it's like to be an emergency medical technician, doctor, registered nurse or cardiovascular technician.
In a series of week-long career camps being held throughout Washington state this summer, students will observe operations, participate in mock emergencies, practive CPR and wear actual scrubs as they find out what it takes to work in health care. They will also attend lectures, visit labs, hospices, hospitals and various emergency medical services. In addition, information will be provided on financial aid packages that are available to youths, and how to plan the remainder of their high school career more effectively.
"It's an opportunity for them to explore jobs in health care, and find out first-hand what additional classes they need in high school to make the most of their postsecondary education," said Saunders.
She said camps normally are free to participants who are between the ages of 13 and 21.
The two health career camps being offered in Yakima County are scheduled for June 21 through July 30 and July 5-9. The first is a six-week summer vocation health career program for high school students. The second is a math and science institute for health careers for middle school students, to be held at YVCC. The contact person for both camps is Maria Benavides (509-865-7630, extension 204).
 
Early Music Festival planned for August
LEAVENWORTH - Early music performed on period instruments will fill the air of Leavenworth Aug. 17-22.
The first ever Icicle Creek Early Music Festival will be held those six days. Beneath Ponderosa pines beside the glacier-fed Icicle Creek in the Cascade Mountain foothills near Leavenworth, four performances of baroque and renaissance chamber music will be presented. There will also be daily lectures, demonstrations and workshops at the Icicle Creek Music Center.
Internationally known performers Stephen Stubbs of Bremen, Germany on lute and baroque guitar, Hans-Jurgen Schnoor of Lubeck, Germany on fortepiano and harpsichord, Susie Napper of Montreal on viola da gamba and baroque cello, and Bruce Haynes of Montreal on baroque oboe have committed to performing at the event.
The festival performances will include "Cristofori in Italy and Germany" on Aug. 17 at 7:30 p.m. at Canyon Wren Recital Hall, "The King's Own Music: Louis XIV and Frederick the Great" on Aug. 19 at 7:30 p.m. at the Grunewald Guild, "War and Peace: Renaissance and Baroque" on Aug. 20 at 7:30 p.m. at Canyon Wren Recital Hall, and "The Baroque Piano and J.S. Bach" on Aug. 21 at 7:30 p.m. at Sleeping Lady Chapel Theater.
Billed as an artistic retreat, the Icicle Creek Music Center is an educational facility and performance venue. Completed in 2003, the facilities include workshop and practice rooms, cabin lodging and two ideal sites for early music performances.
The cost to attend the six-day program is $420. Inquiries should be directed to (800) 281-8026 or icicleearlymusic@hotmail.com.
 
Hop Rod Brew Fest returns to Mabton area
MABTON - Puterbaugh Farms, located between Alderwood and Mabton, will again be the site of the Hop Rod Brew Festival.
This year's fest, as tradition dictates, will again feature beer and wine sampling, a hot rod show and shine, and hot food grilled by the Knights of Columbus. Children's activities will also be set up so families can attend.
A special treat at this year's fest, scheduled for Saturday, July 10 from 5 to 10 p.m., will be the guitar and vocal talents of Stan Fortier.
Admission costs will be $7 for adults and $3 for everyone under 21 years of age. All proceeds will benefit the Knights of Columbus Scholarship Fund.
Puterbaugh Farms is located on Green Valley Road, just off Midvale Road that runs south from Alderwood.
 
Monster trucksat fair racewayall this weekend
YAKIMA - The major league of monster trucks returns to the State Fair Raceway in Yakima June 18-20.
Headlining this year's show is Grave Digger—six-time World Monster Truck Champion Tom Meents, driving Maximum Destruction. Also scheduled to appear are El Toro Loco, Obsession, local Tuff trucks, the Quad Warriors and the State Fair Raceway Hornets.
Each performance will feature Monster Truck racing, as well as Monster Truck freestyle.
Friday and Saturday, gates open at 6 p.m. with racing at 8 p.m. Sunday, gates open at noon with racing at 2 p.m.
Friday, all kids 12 and under will be given a free toy Monster Truck. Sunday, all dads will get in free for Father's Day with a paid family member admission.
 
Lou Rawls to perform in Seattle in mid-July
SEATTLE - Lou Rawls will take the stage five times July 8-11 at Dimitriou's Jazz Alley in Seattle.
With a voice as distinctive and instantly rcognizable as any in music, Rawls will perform an 8 p.m. set on July 8, a pair of 8 and 10:15 p.m. sets on July 9-10, and two more 6:30 and 8:45 p.m. sets on July 11.
Throughout Rawls' career there has been one constant—a voice that critics call sweet as sugar, soft as velvet, strong as steel and smooth as butter. In his 40-some years as a recording artist, spanning an astonishing 70-plus albums, three Grammy awards and 13 Grammy nominations, Rawls has epitomized theultimate song stylist.
His television and movie credits include being the singing voice of Garfield, one of the Rugrats in the film "Rugrats: The Movie" and numerous cameo appearances on such shows as "Norm," "Baywatch Nights" and "Martin."
Rawls is currently touring to support his latest release, "Rawls Sings Sinatra."
Tickets, priced at about $30, are available by calling Dimitriou's Jazz Alley at (206) 441-9729.
 
‘Roar in Core’Labor Day weekend
COEUR D'ALENE, IDAHO - Motorcycle enthusiasts and rock-n-roll fans need to pencil in Labor Day weekend on their calendars.
"The Roar in Core" will be held Sept. 3-6 at the Kootenai County Fairgrounds in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho. The event will entail all aspects of the cycling lifestyle, including bike displays from all over the Pacific Northwest and Canada, interactive exhibits, vendors row, tattoo artists, custom bikes, poker runs and charity rides.
Organizers also promise top notch musical entertainment for rock-n-roll fans. Saturday, Sept. 4, on stage will be Shades of Purple, Jude Bowerman and The Fabulous Thunderbirds. Sunday, Sept. 5, No Quarter and Peter Frampton will entertain what is sure to be a capacity crowd.
The four-day event also offers on-site camping, a saloon and NASCAR simulators. The Roar in Core will be held the same weekend as Coeur d'Alene's Balloon Fest.
Tickets for The Roar in Core are available at any Tickets West location.
 
‘Fun in the Sun’ figure skating championshipson for June 18-19
KENNEWICK - The Tri-Cities Figure Skating Club is hosting its annual "Fun in the Sun" figure skating championships Saturday, June 19.
This year's event brings together two competitions in one—an endorsed Ice Skating Institute recreational competition and a sanctioned U.S. Figure Skating competitive event. Nearly 100 skaters are expected to take part.
The Tri-Cities Figure Skating Club invites the public to come and enjoy watching the Olympic hopefuls compete. Admission to all events is free of charge.
Saturday's performances at the Tri-Cities Coliseum rink B will be from 10:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


