


Entertainment Briefs


 


Date Published to Web: 4/23/2003




1-Column


14th annual cheese festival opens today


As part of the annual Spring Barrel Tasting weekend, the Alderwood Valley Dairy Women will host the 14th annual Washington State Cheese Festival this Friday, Saturday and Sunday.


Area residents and visitors to the Valley this weekend—April 23-25—are invited to taste state and specialty cheeses, as well as enjoy delicious cheesecake at the event.


The site of this year's cheese festival will again be at Tucker Cellars, located at 70 Ray Rd. and Alderwood Valley Highway near Alderwood.


 


Juried art show
set for May 4-28


RICHLAND - The Allied Arts Association and Gallery will present the annual juried show regional exhibition May 4-28.


Many artists from the Pacific Northwest sent slides of their works in hopes of being selected for participation, but only the juror of the show will select which pieces will be exhibited. This year's juror is Rie Palkovic.


She holds a Master's of fine arts degree from Mexico State University. She is the department head at Big Bend Community College. Currently, Palkovic teaches studio and lecture classes in art. She has received numerous awards in many solo and group exhibitions throughout the country.


A public reception for the show is scheduled for Sunday, May 9, from 1 to 3 p.m. at the Allied Arts Gallery, located at the entrance to Howard Amon Park in Richland, 89 Lee Blvd.


 


WrestleMania event headed
to Yakima May 15


YAKIMA - A WWE RAW WrestleMania competition will be staged at the Yakima SunDome Saturday, May 15. Tickets go on sale Saturday, April 24, at the Alderwood Valley SunDome box office.


Promoters are hoping to entice the WWE faithful with a star studded line-up. Scheduled to appear are world champion Chris Benoit, world tag team champions Ric Flair and Batista, Edge, Kane, Chris Jericho, Christian, Trish Stratus, intercontinental champion Randy Orton, Shelton Benjamin, Matt Hardy, general manager Eric Bischoff, The Hurricane and Lita.


Ticket prices start at $20.50, with the luxury seats retailing for $45.50. Besides the SunDome box office, tickets will also be available at all Ticketswest outlets, at the Red Lion at the Gateway Center Hotel in Yakima, by calling 1-800-325-7328 or on-line at www.ticketswest.com.


 


Titanic exhibit
to be showcased
at Portland museum


PORTLAND, ORE. - Saturday, May 29, the Oregon Museum of Science and Industry will open a new exhibit entitled "Titanic Science: the Real Artificats, the True Stories."


The 8,000 square foot exhibit, which will be showcased through the summer months, combines real scientific findings with actual artifacts, creating a powerful educational experience. The highly interactive exhibit, sponsored locally by Comcast, will take visitors through an exploration of the April 15, 1912 disaster and the emotional journey that resulted in the loss of more than 1,500 lives.


Visitors will also get the chance to see the Titanic live. Dr. Bob Ballard, the scientist who discovered the Titanic's final resting place in 1985 off the coast of Newfoundland, will be revisiting the ship in June to conduct research. Visitors to the museum can watch live satellite broadcasts from the Titanic Friday, June 4, through Wednesday, June 9, at 10:30 a.m. and 1 p.m. in the museum's auditorium. Viewers will see Ballard and his team studying the effects of deterioration from natural and human forces on the famous shipwreck.


Friday, May 28, the museum will open Titanica at its Omnimax Theater. Viewers will be invited to experience the Titanic life-size on the giant screen as Titanica takes audiences on an adventure of discovery to the site of the world's most famous shipwreck. Images of the Titanic as she now lies on the ocean floor are contrasted with well preserved archival photographs of the ship in 1912.


Admission to the museum, located at 1945 SE Water Ave. in Portland, is $8.50 for adults and $6.50 for children and senior citizens. Summer hours are 9:30 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily.


 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





