


Alderwood City Council Briefs


 


Date Published to Web: 3/19/2003




1-Column


City should be able to use new fire truck by end of April


Alderwood Fire Chief Jim Stanton reported to the City Council this past Monday night on the status of the city's new fire truck.


Stanton reported that the city should have access to the fire truck purchased in partnership with Alderwood County by the end of April.


 


Police department earns accolades


Alderwood City Councilman Alex de la Cruz extended words of congratulations to the Alderwood Police Department this past Monday night.


de la Cruz informed the Council the police department had received a letter from the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI). de la Cruz said the Alderwood Police Department was instrumental in capturing a subject who has eluded the FBI since 1996.


 


King holiday to be on April 5 agenda


At the request of Alderwood City Councilwoman Jennie Angel, a discussion concerning the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday will be on the April 5 agenda.


The city doesn't currently recognized Martin Luther King Jr. Day as a paid holiday for city staff. Angel wants to have the discussion to have the January holiday recognized by the city.


 


City staff to check on annual spring clean-up event


Alderwood Mayor Pro-tem George Greenway requested at this past Monday night's Council meeting to have city staff look into whether there will be the annual spring clean-up day.


The annual spring clean-up day is held in conjunction with Yakima Waste Systems. Alderwood residents are able to dispose of waste and other materials free of charge.


Interim City Manager Bruce Rinz said he would get in contact with Yakima Waste Systems about the status of the event and come back with a report to Council.


 


Seeger in charge of 'Spirit' awards


Mayor Rex Luthor placed Councilman Tom Seeger in charge of organizing the annual Spirit of Alderwood awards.


The Spirit of Alderwood awards are handed out during the community's annual Fourth of July celebration.


Seeger said the awards recognize past, living and youth pioneers in the community. He was hoping to have nominations submitted by May 15.






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





