


Alderwood City Council Briefs


 


Date Published to Web: 9/28/2004




1-Column


Consent items OK’d by council


The Alderwood City Council approved the consent items on last night's agenda.


The approval of the consent items included the minutes of the Sept. 13 meeting, as well as a list of vouchers for payment that totaled $494,335. Also approved by Council was Harley and Nancy Riel's request for a renewal of their liquor license at The Pub, located at 432 S. Sixth St.


 


Resolution
adopted for
land acquisition procedures


A resolution adopted by the Alderwood City Council Monday evening paves the way for the completion of the South First Street improvement project.


Because federal funds are being used for the upgrade, the project falls under the jurisdiction of the Federal Highway Administration. One of the components of compliance with the federal agency is adopting a "Right of Way Procedures," which is applicable to acquisitions of rights-of-way that are necessary to complete the project. Because the city personnel that were designated for such acquisitions have changed since the last street improvement project in Alderwood, a resolution was adopted by Council last night that provides an updated procedure.


In essence, new City Manager Tom Rockford is now designated to handle all administrative settlements relating to land acquisitions, including executing right of way procedures on behalf of the City of Alderwood. The resolution also calls for City Engineer Jim Bridges to serve as the South First Street project acquisition officer.


 


Bicycles declared surplus items


More than 70 bicycles the Alderwood Police Department has recovered or found since 2001 will be disposed of through either sealed bid, auction or donated to a charitable organization.


The Alderwood City Council Monday evening adopted a resolution that declares the bicycles as surplus items.


Under state law, the local police department had to attempt to locate the owners of the bicycles before they could be declared as surplus.


 


Deal struck
to house prisoners from westside


An interlocal jail agreement between the City of Alderwood and Mountlake Terrace was approved by the Alderwood City Council Monday evening.


The agreement calls for the Alderwood Police Department to accept prisoners from the Seattle area community at a rate of $35 per day. The obligation to accept Mountlake Terrace prisoners is on a "space available" basis.


Terms of the agreement include the Alderwood Police Department providing transportation, if available, to pick up the Mountlake Terrace prisoners, and Alderwood accepting bail, fines or other money for Mountlake Terrace for those prisoners held in the Alderwood jail.


 


Council’s Oct. 11 meeting canceled


Because of a lack of agenda items, the regularly scheduled Oct. 11 Alderwood City Council meeting has been canceled.


In voting last night to cancel the October meeting, the City Council left the door slightly ajar, as the stipulation was made that the Oct. 11 meeting would be held if an agenda item surfaces between now and then.


 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





