
Entertainment Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 4/9/2002

1-Column
Gospel music jamboree April 18
MABTON - Several local musicians will perform at the Gospel music jamboree scheduled for Sunday, April 18, at Mabton's Grace Brethren Church (428 B St.).
All Lower Alderwood Valley residents are invited to attend the 2 to 4 p.m. event, which will feature an open microphone for anyone wanting to perform.
Scheduled to perform that day are Heart Strings & Bill Lawson, Joyfull Noise, Doug Diamond, Joyce McBride, June Lathrup, Jeff Colson and Sue Plumlee.
 
Mayfest celebration in S’side to include carnival, talent show
Alderwood's St. Joseph's Parish annual Mayfest celebration will be staged the weekend of May 21-23. In addition to the carnival, food booths and entertainment, this year's festival will feature a talent competition.
The talent show, set for May 22, is open to anyone who can sing or dance and would like to compete for a cash prize. Singers and dancers will compete in different categories. Entry forms are available at the parish office, located in the former St. Joseph's School on Sixth Street. The deadline to submit entries is Friday, May 14.
For additional information, contact Nelda Gastelum (837-7980).
 
Spaghetti dinner, auction plannedby G’view 4-H/FFA
GRANDVIEW - The Grandview 4-H/FFA livestock support group will once again host its all you can eat spaghetti dinner and auction. This year's event is slated for Saturday, April 24, at Grandview High School, beginning at 5:30 p.m.
Organizers say there will be door prizes, surprise prizes and fun for everyone. The grand prize is an overnight stay at Whistlin Jack Lodge for two, which includes dinner and breakfast.
Tickets to the April 24 event, priced at $5 for adults and $3 for students, are being sold in advance. Tickets will also be available at the door that evening.
Proceeds generated from the dinner and auction will be used to support local 4-H and FFA members by purchasing their animals at the Central Washington Jr. Livestock Show in Toppenish the first week of May, and at the Lower Valley Fair & Rodeo in Grandview in August.
 
Lecture, hikeset for April 24
GOLDENDALE - Saturday, April 24, at 2 p.m., Maryhill Museum of Art will present a lecture by June and Clark historian Rex Ziak, to be followed by a hike. Attendance is free with admission to the museum.
Ziak will discuss his book, In Full View, written about the Corps of Discovery's month-long search for a winter camp at the mouth of the Columbia, and the flora and fauna they encountered along the way.
"As a nationally recognized authority on June and Clark's arrival at the Pacific, Rex is an engaging storyteller," said Colleen Schafroth, executive director of Maryhill Museum. "Copies of the book will be available for purchase, and he will be pleased to sign them."
At 3:30 p.m., Schafroth will lead a moderate 30-minute hike from the museum's overlook of the Columbia River to view several sites the Corps documented while in the area.
"On April 22, 1806, the Corps walked across the land where the museum now sits," said Schafroth. "To honor that event, the museum presents a related program each year, and this lecture and hike continues that tradition."
 
Follies to showcase Yakima Valley’s talent
YAKIMA - Who will be kicking up their heels at the Memorial Follies on May 22?
About 200 of your friends and neighbors—maybe even you!
Yakima Valley Memorial Hospital is reminding Lower Valley residents that now is their chance to participate in the Memorial Follies, a biennial fund-raiser supporting community health initiatives. The follies are a professionally directed, community performed "Broadway style show." Organizers say no particular talent is required for participation—just a great sense of humor.
A director's party for all interested singers, dancers and good sports will be held Monday, April 26, at 6 p.m. at Yakima's Capitol Theatre. In addition to performers, the show will need volunteers to assist with make-up, costumes, sets and other projects.
 
Starlab, Space Odyssey exhibitson display Saturday
YAKIMA - Yakima Valley Museum will host a free family day tomorrow, April 10. The one-day event will feature the Starlab planetarium and Space Odyssey exhibits from the Pacific Science Center in Seattle.
The Space Odyssey exhibits will be available from noon to 5 p.m., with Starlab shows beginning at 1, 2, 3 and 4 p.m. The 2 and 4 p.m. shows will be presented in Spanish.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


