


Setback change approved for Grandview Avenue home


Story by: Mel Sacher


Date Published to Web: 6/25/2003


Excusing himself from the bench of the Alderwood Board of Adjustment, Craig Miller requested the board consider his request for a variance to the side-yard setback at his 1018 Grandview Ave. home.
   Board of Adjustment members voted unanimously Wednesday night to approve the variance, which will allow him and his wife Cheryl to construct a two-car garage, a canopy roof for RV storage and a storage area on the west side of their home.
   The Miller's made the request for a five-foot variance for their side yard, which is located on the corner of Grandview Avenue and Upland Drive. Their house, which is on a corner lot, is required by city ordinances to have two 20-foot setbacks from the street, one from the front yard and one from the side yard.
   Alderwood City Attorney Bruce Rinz said that the original encroachment on the setback was much greater than the five-foot variance presented last night.
   He explained that the city's requirement for corner lots to have in essence two front yards, is what keeps the Miller's from proceeding with building plans without asking for a variance. Rinz added that the unusual shape of the Miller's corner lot is part of what makes their exceptional circumstances qualify for a variance.
   After studying the proposed variance and construction project, Rinz added that city staff recommends approval of the variance, adding that the neighborhood would not be adversely affected.
   Board of Adjustment member Rick Berk questioned whether visibility around the corner would be blocked if approved, but Rinz said because of the odd angle of the property corner, there shouldn't be any visibility issues.
   The variance was approved pending an approved site plan. Also, a stipulation for approval was that curb, gutter and sidewalk and any necessary street improvements be made. The structure to be constructed must also comply with city R-1 zoning requirements.
   
   . Mel Sacher can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail msacher@hawkpress.com
   






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





