
Entertainment Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 5/21/2004

1-Column
Sunshine Wine Festival June 26
YAKIMA - Winners of the Central Washington State Fair wine competition will be announced at the annual "Sunshine and Wine Festival," slated for Saturday, June 26.
The actual judging of the competition will take place June 4-6. The 23rd annual event drew 356 different wine entries this year from 88 Washington state wineries, including a majority of the state's top 25 wine producing wineries. The annual fair competition is the only such event that judges Washington state wines exclusively.
"This will be our largest competition ever," said Ruth Anglin, activities manager at the fair.
"We've never had this many entries or this many wineries involved before. It is very exciting to see this competition grow," Anglin said.
For the first time ever, because of the large number of entries, the judging will be done by four panels of five judges. Each panel will consist of a moderator and four panel members. The moderator will assist the process of translating the panel's judging skills into gold, silver and bronze medal awards.
The awards will be presented at the June 26 Sunshine and Wine Festival at the Yakima fairgrounds. Although the wine judging is a closed event, the public can buy tickets for the festival,where the winning wines will be served. This year's festival will also feature foods from 15 area restaurants, and wine selections from 53 different wineries.
 
Elvis imitatorset to perform
YAKIMA - "The Illusion of Elvis," a show presented by Danny Vernon, will take the stage at the YVCC Kendall Hall auditorium Friday, July 16, at 8 p.m.
The county's Retired Senior Volunteer Program is hosting the show as a fund-raiser. Limited reserve seating tickets are priced at $25. General seating tickets are priced at $20. Tickets can be ordered by calling (509) 574-6858.
Vernon is an award winning Elvis Presley tribute artist. In May 2003 he was named best Elvis impersonator at a competition in Palm Springs, Calif. The judging panel at that competition included the likes of Elvis' bodyguard, Sonny West, a back-up singer for Elvis, Estelle Brown, one of Elvis' band members, Charlie Hodge, and Elvis' personal hairdresser, Patty Parry.
Vernon's website can be found at: www.dannyvernon.com.
 
Pasta luncheon, fashion showon tap for June 12
UNION GAP - The Kamiakin Kiwanis and Retired Senior Volunteer Program groups will present an Italian pasta luncheon and fashion show Saturday, June 12, at Union Gap's Ahtanum Youth Park barn.
In addition to the luncheon and fashion show, the afternoon activities will include a silent auction and raffle, including such items as framed wood carvings, afghans, Seattle Symphony tickets and a wine basket.
The June 12 luncheon is scheduled for 1 p.m., to be followed by the fashion show at 2 p.m. Dress wear from Gottschalks will be featured at this year's show.
Tickets, priced at $15, are available by calling the Retired Senior Volunteer Program office at (509) 574-6858.
 
ABATE spring opener comingto Toppenish
Toppenish - The 26th annual ABATE of Washington Spring Opener will be held at the Toppenish rodeo grounds June 17-20.
The four-day event will include activities such as a parade of bikes, music, raffles and a poker run.
The gates open Thursday, June 17, at noon with music beginning at 5 p.m. Music will be provided by Point of Entry of Yakima Shipply of Selah and Mid Life Crisis of Seattle.
Tickets in advance are $25 or $30 at the gate. Advance tickets are available by calling (253) 475-4944 or by visiting the ABATE web site at www.abate-wa.org.
 
Grandview winery  hosts spring event
GRANDVIEW - The Don Quixote Winery, Manchego Real and Guerra's Gourmet Cooking will present a special spring dinner Saturday, May 22, at 604 Elm St., Grandview.
A seafood dinner, served with wine will be available at the cost of $10 per person from 5 to 8 p.m. For more information call the winery at 882-6111.
 
Free June concert planned              in Alderwood
The public is invited to attend a free concert being presented by the Yakima Valley Community Band Wednesday, June 2, at 7:30 p.m. at the Alderwood High School auditorium.
The band is under the direction of Dick Schactler of Yakima.
 
 
College journal writers' reception planned
GRANDVIEW - Student contributors to the Yakima Valley Community College literary journal, Prism 2004, will be guests of honor at a reception to be held Wednesday, June 2, on the Grandview campus.
The reception, scheduled from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m., will introduce the Lower Valley writers, artists and photographers who submitted their work for inclusion in the magazine. Also as part of the event copies of the magazine will be presented to the young artists, as well as  special awards for the top contributors.
Similar receptions are planned for Yakima campus students on June 1 and 3, at the Yakima YVCC campus.
 
‘No Haters’ program scheduled in Mabton
MABTON -  The Mabton Jr./Sr. High School ninth and 10th graders are in rehearsal for a special end-of-the-year variety show to be held Thursday, May 27, at the high school gym.
Under the direction of high school English teacher Diana Thomas, the students will celebrate their differences under the theme "No Haters Allowed."
The young performers will present programs for their fellow students at 12:30 p.m. and 2 p.m.
They are also scheduled to give an evening performance for their families and the community at 6:30 p.m., Thomas said.
The evening show will be held in conjunction with a fund-raiser dinner to benefit the school football program. Cost for the  dinner and show is $7, payable at the door.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


