


Tacitly Yours


Story by: Ellie Olmsen


Date Published to Web: 9/17/2004


Tuesday, like at least a few people in Alderwood County, I marched to the polls and cast my vote in the primary election. Now, I do realize the importance of voting, I sent in my voter registration long before my 18th birthday solely because I wanted to make sure I didn't miss voting in my first presidential election, but I had a slightly different reason for visiting the polls Tuesday.
   I was excited to try out the new E-Slate voting system. I had seen the new system demonstrated at local city council meetings and at that point found the sleek machine attractive and kind of exciting. And let me tell you, when I was finally able to get my hands on it Tuesday, I was not disappointed.
   I was a little nervous as the poll worker gave me a mini-lesson in how to the use the new voting machine. And as I approached the booth I wasn't sure if I was going to be able to handle the new technology - okay it was more that I didn't want to look stupid asking for help while I voted. But still, once I actually started the voting process it was really simple.
   It was so easy, you just spin the little knob and press enter to vote. Voting was just so easy. I will admit that when I reviewed my choices at the end of the ballot and pressed the button that would cast my vote, I did feel a little doubt. Here I was sending my vote out into space (or at least that's what it felt like.) I did kind of miss that reassuring clunk you hear as you slide your paper ballot into the ballot box.
   Despite not getting to hear that reassuring clunk as the ballot falls into the box, I left my polling location feeling good about our new voting system. I am already looking forward to spinning the dial again in November - there will be no absentee voting for this girl.
   . Ellie Olmsen can be contacted at (509) 837-4500, or e-mail her at eolmstead@hawkpress.com
   






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





