
Entertainment Briefs
 
Date Published to Web: 8/20/2004

1-Column
Maryhill Museum arts fest Aug. 28-29
GOLDENDALE - Organizers of the first ever Maryhill Arts Festival are promising an exciting and uniquely Northwest experience.
To be held under a canopy of trees at Maryhill Museum's picnic grounds on Saturday, Aug. 28, and Sunday, Aug. 29, it will make for a fun-filled weekend where art, wine, food and music can be enjoyed by all. Admission to the festival will be free.
Dozens of talented artists from throughout the region are expected to showcase orginal, quality art alongside a special exhibition by the Pacific Northwest Sculptors Assocation. Also being held that weekend is the museum's annual outdoor sculpture invitational, featuring 15 large-scale works.
"Visitors are invited to stroll through beautiful paintings, photography, jewlery, glass, ceramics, sculpture and much more by over 50 artists," said Colleen Schafroth, executive director at the museum. "Many of the artists will be giving art demonstrations and there will be free art-making activities for children."
A wine garden at the two-day festival will offer a variety of wines from the seven award winning wineries of the Klickitat Wine Alliance. Also, food vendors will be on site, including the Lyle Hotel Restaurant, Brian's Pourhouse Restaurant, Casa El Mirador and Cafe Maryhill.
Hourly musical presentations on stage will feature such groups as Didgeridoo of George Knehr, guitarist Charles Crosman, Joanie and the Chipsters, Swing Crew and Humphrey & Smartman.
The museum will also be open both days. The new exhibit on display there is entitled "A Passion for Plants: Before and After June & Clark."
The Maryhill Museum of Art, a castle-like chateau overlooking the Columbia River near Goldendale, is open daily.
 
Fair, ride tickets already on sale
YAKIMA - If you're planning on attending the Central Washington State Fair in Yakima this year and want to save a few bucks on admission and rides, organizers are offering some special prices to those willing to shop early.
Special discount admission tickets are currently available at local credit unions around the Valley, now through Sept. 23. The admission tickets are presently being discounted from $10 for adults to $8.50. A special fair family pack is also now available.  The pack includes gate admission for two adults and two youths, 36 ride coupons and three coupons for carnival game and food discounts. A $62 value, the pack is now selling for $39.
Carnival ride coupon booklets are also being discounted right now. Normally the 36-ride booklets are $36, but they are now selling for $15.
Besides being offered at credit unions up and down the Valley, the specially priced tickets are also available at the Yakima fair ticket office, or can be ordered by calling (509) 248-7160.
 
Peaches, cream social Aug. 31
YAKIMA - A peaches and cream social for those interested in learning about volunteer opportunities with the American Red Cross is scheduled for Tuesday, Aug. 31.
All those who might be willing to donate blood, serve on a disaster action team, help out at blood drawings, assist office staff or represent the Red Cross at community events are being encouraged to attend the Aug. 31 event at the Yakima Valley chapter of the American Red Cross office in Yakima (302 S. 2nd St.). The informational social event will be held from 2 to 7 p.m.
 
Local film wins New York Film Festival honors
BENTON CITY - The Promise, an independent family feature film shot entirely in Washington state featuring local actors, was awarded "Best Drama," honors a  the New York International Independent Film Festival in July.
The film stars 9-year-old Pamela Serrano, a fourth-grader at Heights Elementary School in Prosser. It also features scenes filmed in nine Washington cities, including Granger, Richland, Pasco, Kennewick, Ritzville, Benton City and Seattle.
The movie chronicles the adventures of Emily, played by Serrano, as she travels the state to find her father, according to Michael Charboneau of Altered Image Productions, the film's producer and director.
The movie premiered in February to a sell-out crowd at the Uptown Theatre in Richland. It has also shown to a sold-out crowd at the Alderwood Grand Cinemas 12 and to audiences at Walla Walla Grand Cinemas and Hermiston Stadium 8 Cinemas.
DVD copies of the film are available at Hastings Superstores in Kennewick and Richland, Small Town Video in Benton City and on-line at www.thepromise-movie.com.
 
September car show registration deadline nears
GRANDVIEW - The Pacific Northwest Tejano Music Association will host its third annual car show Sunday, Sept. 5, in Grandview. Open to all types of cars, from low-riders to street cars, the one-day event will be held at Grandview's Country Park on Wallace Way, said event promoter Tino Patina of Grandview.
Entries are also open for vans and trucks and custom bikes, he said.
Pre-registration is $25 per vehicle and the deadline is Aug. 31. Day of the event registration is $30, he said.
There is a $10 entry fee for custom bikes. Prizes will be awarded for first, second and third place. Judging will begin at noon with the awards presentation to be held at 5 p.m.
In addition to the car show, which is open to the public, an afternoon of entertainment and food is planned. General admission is $10 per person with children 10 and under admitted free.
Gates open at 12 p.m. noon to the general public. Those with car show entries may begin gathering at the park at 6 a.m.
For car show registration forms call Patina at 882-5050 or visit the music association's web site at pntma.com.
 
Yakima Fresh Hop Ale Festival       set for Oct. 2
YAKIMA - The Yakima Brewing Company and Allied Arts Council of Yakima will host the second annual Fresh Hop Ale Festival Saturday, Oct. 2, at the Council's art center, 5000 W. Lincoln Ave., Yakima.
The festival, which showcases beers produced from fresh Yakima Valley hops, will be held from 5 to 10:30 p.m.
To qualify as a fresh hop ale, the beers must be produced with hops picked within 24 hours of being used for brewing. Festival organizers will accept applications from up to 12 breweries.
Last year's event attracted 1,200 attendees. This year, local restaurants, regional wineries and dance bands will all be a part of the festival. The event is a fund-raiser for the Allied Arts Council's children's art programs.
In addition to the ale fest, the Allied Arts second annual art walk will be held Thursday, Sept. 30, through Saturday, Oct. 2. More than 60 businesses and 60 local artists will be participating in the free Art Walk event.
For more information about the festival or artwalk call the Allied Arts Council at (509) 966-0930.
 


 




Webmaster  Copyright Hawk Press Inc., 


