


Scotties take advantage of 10 Mabton miscues


Story by: Bob Story


Date Published to Web: 3/30/2003


COWICHE - Ten errors cost the Mabton High School baseball team yesterday.
   The only good thing about all the Viking miscues Monday afternoon is that they came during a non-league game. Playing at Cowiche, Class 1A Highland defeated the Class B Vikings, 12-2. The non-league contest was stopped after the fifth inning because of the 10-run rule.
   Mabton got to the Scotties' starting pitcher, Nelson, early. In the top of the first, the Vikes' Ray Elizondo opened the game by slapping a double. A walk to James Magana and a bloop single by Javier Galvan loaded the bases. Alex Balli then lofted a fly ball to center, scoring Elizondo on the sac fly. Mabton reloaded the bases when Marcos Zepeda singled sharply, but Highland got out of the inning cheaply when Nelson fanned a batter and then induced the last out of the inning with a groundout.
   The Scotties all but ended the game in the bottom half of the first, pushing eight runs across the plate. Balli, the starting pitcher for Mabton, was touched for three hits in the opening frame. He also gave up two walks. Balli could have survived that, but three errors on the part of his teammates ended up doing him in. He was lifted from the mound without a single out being recorded.
   Zepeda, pitching in relief, finally got the Vikes out of the inning. Zepeda only allowed one more run until turning the pitching chores over to Elizondo in the fifth inning.
   "Marcos (Zepeda) kept us right in there," said Mabton Coach Kerry Snodgrass.
   "The story yesterday wasn't pitching," Snodgrass continued. "We didn't field the ball. We just can't make these kinds of errors and expect to get away with it."
   Mabton accounted for its second run of the game in the top of the third. Balli singled, eventually scoring on an RBI single by Zepeda, who had the lone multi-hit performance of the day for the Vikes, going 2-for-2.
   
   . Bob Story,can be contacted at
   (509) 837-4500, or e-mail him
   at bstory@hawkpress.com
   






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





