


Grandview City Council Briefs


 


Date Published to Web: 8/3/2004




1-Column


Council approves mutual aid agreement


GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Grandview City Council approved a mutual aid agreement with the Alderwood Valley Office of Emergency Management.


The agreement brings all of the cities, fire districts and Alderwood County together under one mutual aid agreement that is coordinated by the Alderwood Valley Office of Emergency Management.


 


Council receives update on cable TV upgrade


GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Grandview City Administrator Jim Sewell talked to members of Council about the cable television upgrades being made by Charter Communications.


Sewell reported that upgrades were originally scheduled to be completed by the end of the year, and at this point Charter has all of the underground work complete and is working on hanging cable from PP&L power poles throughout the community.


Sewell said the company is hoping to begin phasing in upgraded connections as early as October.


 


Council approves fencing ordinance


GRANDVIEW - People living in Grandview will now have to apply for a building permit before they can install a fence.


Monday night, Grandview City Council approved a new fencing ordinance that sets in place a variety of regulations when it comes to the installation of a new fence. The regulations include that the fence can not be more than six feet tall unless a special use permit is granted and outlines material that can not be used to construct a fence, such as barbed wire, plywood, pallets, cardboard and used tires.


The new ordinance will go into effect Aug. 9.


 


Council outlaws parking area near middle school


GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Grandview City Council voted to eliminate parking on West Second Street in front of Grandview Middle School.


Parking will be eliminated for 60 feet along the south side of Second Street, from the intersection of Hillcrest west, and 116 feet of parking will be eliminated on the north side of the street from Hillcrest west.


 


County auditor explains new voting system


GRANDVIEW - Alderwood County Auditor Corky Mattingly talked to members of Grandview City Council about the new electronic voting system that will be used in Alderwood County during this fall's general election.


She showed one of the electronic voting mechanisms to members of the council, showing them how the system will work. She pointed out the system does not use a touch screen, instead people will use a rotary dial to cast their vote.


 


Grandview Council approves rezone application


GRANDVIEW - Monday night, Grandview City Council approved the rezone of nearly five acres of property located off of West Fifth Street. The request for re-zoning was made by Dr. Fred Boboth.


Boboth requested the property be rezoned from AF1 agriculture to R-1 single family residential.


 


 






 










Webmaster
  Copyright 
Hawk Press Inc.
, 





